URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005050746.html
ID : ALFR2020050600013

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Namibia: Charity Donations Exceed Expectations
Ariticle : 
A CHARITY organisation which was started to provide struggling families with food during the Covid-19 lockdown has donated more than 2 000 parcels in Windhoek's informal settlements.
The Katutura Food Donation group distributed parcels to a total of 2 910 families during the lockdown which ended yesterday.
The charity targeted households at Okahandja Park, Havana, Hakahana and Otjomuise.
Windhoek-based surgeon Matthias Rohr and eight other members consisting of medical workers, teachers and entrepreneurs started the organisation in response to the Covid-19 pandemic in Namibia.
The group organised a stand at the entrance of the Spar supermarket at Windhoek's Maerua Mall Lifestyle shopping centre last month where they collected food items such as maize meal, rice, cooking oil, milk, sugar and beans, among others. They packaged these into parcels for distribution.
Their last distribution took place over the weekend.
The group received 400 loaves of bread and also had 93 special bags consisting of 10kg maize meal and rice.
"As the lockdown has been lifted, we have stopped our project. We had so much fun and saw so many happy people there who all got the feeling they have not been forgotten. We are a bit sad to stop but all have to go back to work," Rohr said.
"As long as we can sit at home, we can do this," he said.
Meanwhile, the 'Making A Difference' charity, operating at Tsumeb's Kuvukiland informal settlements, aims to bring about positive change in the area.
The charity, which was in the process of establishing a youth development centre before their plans were derailed by the Covid-19 pandemic, have been focussing on feeding members of the community most affected by the lockdown.
Communications chief Tashiya Angula said they usually rely on donations from the public, but have been fortunate to receive donations from the Gondwana Trust, Namibia Dairies, Hands of Hope and Dein Ball für Namibia.
She added that the charity is currently feeding families affected by paralysis who were identified by community leaders and the charity themselves.
Despite this, Angula says, they receive new requests for assistance every day.
Through the Gondwana Trust, the charity managed to secure wheelchairs for some of the beneficiaries, and soon they will start a winter clothes and blankets collection.
The charity also plans on installing 1 000 tippy taps at the Tsumeb informal settlements to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, as well as to reduce hepatitis E outbreaks.
"We have reached out to various stakeholders at Tsumeb and Namibia at large to assist us, but so far we have only had two donors," said Angula.
These are Andre Neethling and Nico Kaiyamo, who each donated N$5 000.
However, the charity still needs more funds to successfully complete the project.
In the past few weeks, The Namibian has reported about numerous other donations by corporate entities and individuals in response to the lockdown.