URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/yUw1Gap0wSVi9g6W5FGL3Q?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050300001

Date : 2020-05-03 00:00:00
Title : The 713-person quarantine period of the Dunmu Fleet expires, and all the staff will lift the quarantine immediately after taking over the yin.
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-03
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center said today (3) that a total of 713 people from the Dunmu Yuan Training Detachment project had expired in the early morning of the quarantine period. The final inspection will be carried out. If all the staff test negative, the quarantine will be lifted and the home will be released. After the completion, the quarantine can be lifted tomorrow as soon as possible; everyone needs to implement independent health management after returning home.

The command center further stated that the gathering of 31 people diagnosed with the Dunmu Yuanxuan Detachment caused panic among the people and apologized to the people throughout the country. After the incident, the command center and the Ministry of Defense worked together to guard the community, and hoped that the people would give support and encouragement to the confirmed cases still in hospital, and hoped that they would recover soon. The command center will continue to review and revise the fleet control with the Ministry of Defense Measures related processes to avoid the same situation happening again.

The command center also suggested that nucleic acid detection reagents and instruments could be deployed in the future fleet, considering the long sailing time of the fleet to carry out the mission, and the lack of inspection equipment on board, once a suspected case occurs during the mission, the ship ’s military doctor can be provided as a diagnostic reference.

The command center once again appealed that although the domestic epidemic has slowed down, it is not over yet, and the people must not be slack. During the outbreak of the Spanish flu in 1918, Philadelphia failed to take timely preventive measures against the community, resulting in more than 10,000 deaths. In the other city of St. Louis, a series of control measures such as closing schools and churches were taken after the first confirmed diagnosis. Therefore, at the peak of the epidemic, the number of deaths in St. Louis was much lower than that of Philadelphia. Instead, St. Louis caused another wave of outbreaks and increased deaths. It can be seen that in the face of the epidemic situation, it is not easy to relax. Only by cooperating with various epidemic prevention measures and implementing good hygiene habits such as personal hand washing, mask wearing, and cough etiquette, can we maintain the current epidemic prevention results and return to normal life as soon as possible.

                     