URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/P7tQd645gMwWVa8jCDkJ_Q?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050100001

Date : 2020-05-01 00:00:00
Title : &quot;The 109 Self-Screening Program for AIDS at Home&quot; started! Regular screening for peace of mind-Ministry of Health and Welfare Disease Control Department
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-01
To encourage the public to understand their own health status, the CDC announced that this year&#39;s (109) &quot;In-Home AIDS Self Screening Program&quot; will be processed from May 1, and the public will go to cooperative civil organizations, health bureaus (institutes), etc. 362 A physical service point or 26 automatic service machine installations. After paying 200 yuan for the screening reagents, you can do AIDS screening at home, taking into account privacy and convenience. In addition, the online order pick-up channel is expected to open on May 12.

The CDC stated that last year, the &quot;In-Home AIDS Self-Screening Program&quot; provided a total of more than 50,000 screening services. The positive rate of the public&#39;s online log-in test results was 0.7%, and the program received widespread response. According to the 90-90-90 target set by the United Nations AIDS Program (UNAIDS), that 90% of infected people know their condition, 90% of those who know the condition take drugs and 90% of those who take drugs have successfully suppressed the virus. For 88-92-95, it is estimated that 12% of infected people in China still do not know their infection status. The CDC calls on those who have sex to recommend at least one screening test; those with or without sex are recommended to have at least one screening test per year; if there is infection-risk behavior (such as sharing needles with multiple people, multiple sexual partners, combined use) Addictive drugs, infectious diseases, etc.), it is recommended to be screened every 3 to 6 months to understand their own AIDS infection status.

According to the CDC, no matter whether the test result is positive or negative, you can upload the &quot;Reagent Number&quot; photo, log in the test result and register as a member (anonymous) according to the packaging instructions, and will issue a free reagent electronic redemption voucher. Or gift to relatives and friends. There is also a &quot;AIDS Self-screening Login Test Results Draw Award&quot; event, which has a total of more than 240 awards. The largest award is a convenience store gift certificate of 10,000 yuan. Welcome people who have completed the screening to log in online test results!

Self-screening reagents are preliminary tests. If the initial screening test is positive, the public does not need to panic too much. As soon as possible, the designated medical institution of AIDS will confirm the test as soon as possible. In addition, the Health Bureau and relevant private organizations also provide screening consultations and referrals for screening positive cases or accompanying medical services, which can be used if necessary. For detailed self-screening methods, please refer to the instructional video or the operating instructions in the reagent package; related service content, reagent supply location and AIDS designated medical institution list and other information can be found on the project website (
https://hiva.cdc.gov.tw/oraltest
) For enquiries, or call the toll free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800-001922) for inquiries.