URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/nhung-thuc-pham-doc-hon-thuoc-la-nguy-co-gay-ung-thu-cao-kinh-hoang-20200501072045101.htm
ID : DANT2020050100005

Date : Friday 01/05/2020 - 07:20
Title : Foods that are more toxic than cigarettes, &#39;terrifying&#39; cancer risk
Ariticle : 

Snack
In the bim bim contains quite dimensional carcinogen acrylamide. It is found in some ingredients with large amounts of carbohydrates and acts when the food is heated above 120 degrees. Therefore, eating bim bim too often and continuously will be harmful to health and increase the risk of cancer.
Microwave butter roasted popcorn

This is a favorite snack of many people, especially on family gatherings, gathered around the TV to enjoy your favorite movie. However, you must be very careful with this type of food.

At one time, it was thought that inhaling the fragrance from the popcorn popcorn could cause lung cancer. This has been proven false, but science has found another death. This toxin is in the non-stick layer on the inside of the burn bag, when rotated at high temperatures will decompose into a compound of perfluorooctanoic acid, increasing the risk of cancer. In addition, the glue around the bag can also release extremely toxic substances when the burn bag is turned hot.

Canned food
If you think canned food is safe and hygienic, think again. Most cases contain BPA-A. According to breastcancerfund.org, even when exposed to small amounts of BPA-A, the body is at risk of breast cancer, prostate cancer and many other disorders.
Roasted red meat
Nearly everyone is tired of the tender, juicy and fragrant charcoal grilled meat dish. However, scientific studies have found that making this type of beef releases the heterocylic amine, a common carcinogen. According to the National Cancer Institute, cooking meat at very high temperatures like coal will create powerful carcinogens and increase the risk of developing malignancies.
French fries
The carcinogen acrylamide is also found in potato chips, even 1.5 times higher than the content in chips. Whether it is in home fries or outside of the food store, it is high in content. You should minimize the amount and frequency of this food, avoiding the risk of cancer.



Who doesn&#39;t want a cold soda on a hot, sweaty day? However, this favorite drink pushes you to danger. According to John Hopkins Bloomberg University of Public Health, drinking more than 1 glass of soda a day will cause your body to accumulate and produce more 4-methylimidazole, a substance that can cause cancer. Artwork: Internet

Cake


Most pastry ingredients are made from barley flour. When baked at high temperatures, produces carcinogens similar to bim. However, for cakes baked at low temperatures does not occur this situation. It is best to limit the frequency of eating cakes, while avoiding obesity and reducing the risk of cancer.
Instant coffee
When coffee is concentrated at high temperatures, it also produces acrylamide. This substance easily soluble in water and &quot;quickly absorbed&quot; into organs in the body. When using this drink, you should be careful and use it in small amounts and frequency.
Soda

Who doesn&#39;t want a cold soda on a hot, sweaty day? However, this favorite drink pushes you to danger. According to John Hopkins Bloomberg University of Public Health, drinking more than 1 glass of soda a day will cause your body to accumulate and produce more 4-methylimidazole, a substance that can cause cancer.



There are many dishes made from processed meat such as sandwiches, sausages, bacon ... These foods are very high in salt and contain many preservatives as well as harmful chemicals for the body. If you buy bacon, things get worse because they are always contaminated with carcinogenic polycyclic carcinogenic hydrocarbons, almost like when you smoke. Artwork: Internet

Processed meat
There are many dishes made from processed meat such as sandwiches, sausages, bacon ... These foods are very high in salt and contain many preservatives as well as harmful chemicals for the body. If you buy bacon, things get worse because they are always contaminated with carcinogenic polycyclic carcinogenic hydrocarbons, almost like when you smoke.
High-temperature cooked food, burnt
When meats such as chicken, pork, beef and fish are cooked or fried at high temperatures, they form compounds called heterocyclic amines (HCAs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). These compounds will promote changes in DNA, increasing the risk of cancer. A study from Kansas State University found that marinating meat in spices like rosemary, thyme, oregano and sage can cut up to 87% of HCAs in a piece of meat.
Types of alcoholic drinks
According to the National Institutes of Health, the more you drink, the higher your risk of developing cancers of the throat, liver, breast and colon. Cutting back is an effective way to reduce your risk of cancer. A recent study of consumers of alcoholic beverages in 195 countries and territories around the world showed that more than a quarter of alcohol-related deaths in people over 50 are due to cancer.




Foods commonly soaked in saline, vinegar and nitrate solutions can add artificial colors. Normal vinegar is good for your health, but soaking it with salt and nitrate makes the vinegar harmful. Eating soaked foods daily can increase your risk of colorectal and stomach cancer. Artwork: Internet




Genetically modified food
Genetically engineered foods are developed in the lab to help them cope with pests and reach their desired size. A recent study with mice showed that using modified foods causes cancer cells to grow.
Pickled food
Foods commonly soaked in saline, vinegar and nitrate solutions can add artificial colors. Normal vinegar is good for your health, but soaking it with salt and nitrate makes the vinegar harmful. Eating soaked foods daily can increase your risk of colorectal and stomach cancer.
Drinks are too hot

This may surprise you because the habit of using hot drinks can damage the esophagus and lead to throat cancer. How to distinguish between hot and warm drinks, scientists have divided the two temperatures above and below 65 degrees C for you to estimate.

According to Pioneer

