URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/dich-covid-19-tai-viet-nam-se-keo-dai-den-khi-nao-20200504143534513.htm
ID : DANT2020050400017

Date : Monday 04/05/2020 - 14:59
Title : When will the Covid-19 epidemic in Vietnam last?
Ariticle : 

Covid-19 is different from SARS

By the morning of 4/5, our country recorded 271 cases of Covid-19, of which 18 days did not record cases outside the community. The two most recent cases were two cases of invasive cases, with people returning from foreign countries immediately on entry.

Vietnam currently has good control of the epidemic situation, but the epidemic in the world is still very complicated.

Follow
Assoc.Prof. Dr. Tran Dac Phu, Senior Advisor, Vietnam Center for Emergency Events,
Covid-19 is spread by inhalation, just like old SARS. However, most SARS patients are critically ill, requiring hospitalization. We manage, treat, isolate all cases of disease. SARS does not spread as much as the flu or as Covid-19. Therefore, the disease only exists in some countries, when we manage it, the epidemic is gone, only lasts a few months.


Assoc.Prof. Dr. Tran Dac Phu, Senior Advisor, Vietnam Center for Emergency Response to Medical Events. Photo: Government.


In contrast, the Covid-19 epidemic has a lot of asymptomatic cases, cases of mild fever, cough just like the flu and it can exist in the community and spread. Because of this nature, the epidemic has a prolonged spread, which we cannot deal with.

According to Dr. Phu, Covid-19 is different from the flu. The majority of flu cases are mild, with few deaths. It exists in the community, causes a high incidence and progresses to having an infection in the community, whereby people have immunity. Cases can increase and decrease each year but do not cause collapse to the health system in treatment.

Covid-19 has mild cases, the ability to spread is difficult to control. Because it is difficult to control, it has a long-lasting effect.

“To form community immunity, it is very difficult for the disease to remain at an acceptable level for the community. We can accept cases of influenza in the community for human immunity to increase, because the number of cases can be high but the death is not great. With the SARS-CoV-2 virus, it cannot be like that, ”Dr. Phu emphasized.

No answer when the translation is over!

Experts also said that the outbreak of Covid-19 could be prolonged, without a vaccine, it is not known how long it will last. At present, no country, experts dare to confirm that Covid-19 will become as seasonal flu or worse as SARS.

“At the moment, we have a certain understanding of SARS-Cov-2 like this and Vietnam&#39;s prevention method is still how to prevent, detect, isolate and quarantine. I still say it is like a small fire so do not let it burst into a big fire, &quot;Dr. Phu said.

According to Assoc. Prof. Phu, we work, live, study, do business but also have to ensure good prevention against epidemics and ensure the health of the people, especially to avoid high numbers of cases. A high incidence is likely to cause a great death. Therefore, the detection of the first case, isolation, zoning and quarantine for good is very important. That is the responsibility of every locality in the country.


The risk of epidemic in our country is still high

“We have succeeded in controlling the disease but we still determine that the risk of epidemics in Vietnam is still high. We have implemented a social gap, we have prevented the outbreak from spreading in the community but the risk is still high because the epidemic in the world is still complicated. Many countries are also struggling with the disease situation, there are still thousands of daily cases, even a few hundred deaths, ”Dr. Phu said.

According to him, the risk of epidemic outbreaks along the way of entry is still possible. In addition, we do not guarantee that there will be no more 100% cases in the community despite the social gap.

With an outbreak when detecting a positive case we conduct blockade. All positive cases, close contact cases called F1 are taken to isolation. With the rest of us, we take all measures to do so if there are still those who are carriers of the disease, there is no contact with healthy people, the little chance of contact. The chances of good people coming into contact with the sick are also few.

After 28 days of blockade, cases of symptomatic patients were taken to the hospital. Assuming any positive case has no symptoms, then 28 days will recover, no longer capable of spreading the disease.

But in the community, no matter how socially displaced, any country cannot prevent 100% of a potentially infectious case of contact with an uninfected person.

“We don&#39;t know in the community who are still germs. There may be germs still spread. Therefore, the risk of disease is still possible, ”Dr. Phu emphasized.

People still need to comply with disease prevention measures including: wearing masks; do not gather in large numbers; Do not go out when not needed especially the elderly, people with background disease; avoid close contact; wash your hands often with soap or an antiseptic solution; health declaration…

Nam Phuong




Tag:


Coronavirus

Wuhan pneumonia virus

re-positive




