URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/an-goi-ca-ro-phi-nguoi-dan-ong-suyt-mat-mang-vi-nhiem-doc-ta-bien-20200501114934733.htm
ID : DANT2020050100010

Date : Friday 01/05/2020 - 11:49
Title : Eating tilapia salad, the man almost lost his life due to &quot;sea cholera&quot; poison
Ariticle : 

Mr. T. (54 years old, Hai Phong) was admitted to Viet Tiep hospital for emergency treatment on 9/4 in a state of dangerous toxic shock.

The family said that on 7/4/2020 after a working day, it is customary for Mr. T and his friends to eat tilapia salad - a familiar food for Mr. T and his friends.

But this time, after eating tilapia salad for a day, he began to have a fever, his right leg was numb and could not move.

On 9/4, Mr. T. was taken to the emergency at Viet Tiep Hospital - Hai Phong. Doctors diagnose patients infected with &quot;vibrio haemolyticus&quot;, also known as &quot;sea cholera&quot;, a bacteria commonly found in aquatic products such as fish, shrimp ...


Patients quickly fall into a state of shock, impaired liver and kidney function; need vasomotor to maintain blood pressure. Severe right foot infection, the patient was removed and removed pus in his right leg and transferred to Viet Duc Friendship Hospital on April 11.

At Viet Duc Friendship Hospital, emergency medical specialists specializing in orthopedic trauma and resuscitation are constantly consulted, giving the best measures to maintain hemodynamic status, offering a plan for wound treatment. Injury to the leg for the sick.

After 3 days of intensive treatment, Mr. T was fortunate and his body index gradually improved. After that, the patient was put into treatment at the Department of Bacterial Surgery and Wound Care.

After 1 week of treatment, the body&#39;s condition improved better, no longer used vasomotor, liver and kidney function gradually returned to normal. Mr. T had another operation to remove and treat infections in his right leg with the maintenance of high doses of antibiotics, changing the bandages on the spot. The result of the test no longer records the &quot;description of the sea&quot;.

According to Assoc.Prof. Dr. Nguyen Duc Chinh, Dean of the Department of Bacterial Surgery and Wound Care, although he can save his life and his legs, Mr. T. will still have to spend time rehabilitating to be able to return back to normal life. .

Mr. Tran Tuan Anh, PhD, Department of Bacterial Surgery and Wound Care - the person directly treating Mr. T recommends that people need to follow a healthy eating habit. The use of undercooked food is always at risk of being contaminated with life-threatening microorganisms. Therefore, people need to &quot;eat cooked, drink boiled water&quot; and minimize the use of foods of unknown origin, unknown toxicity that can affect the health of themselves and their loved ones.

Vibrio parahaemolyticus is an acute contagious bacterial disease that spreads through the mouth, causing it to be related to the cholera bacterium (vibrio cholerae) and is also called the &quot;sea cholera&quot;.

V.parahaemolyticus is a halophile bacterium, so it grows well in alkaline and saline environments, exists in seawater and marine animals such as fish, shrimp, shellfish, snails ..., often living in estuaries and coastal most regions of the world. Currently, V. parahaemolyticus has been confirmed as the cause of many food poisoning incidents due to eating marine fish and seafood. V. Parahaemolyticus is one of three strains of bacteria that cause diarrhea (Salmonella, Shigella) currently considered as a threat and burden of disease on the health of Vietnamese people.

Hong Hai




Tag:


Tilapia salad

cholera poisoning

raw food




