URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/cac-ca-covid-19-tai-duong-tinh-o-viet-nam-chi-la-xac-virus-khong-lay-lan-20200505143847163.htm
ID : DANT2020050500012

Date : Tuesday 05/05/2020 - 14:57
Title : Covid-19 cases re-positive in Vietnam: Just viral corpses, not spread!
Ariticle : 



Covid-19 cases re-positive in Vietnam: Just viral corpses, not spread!



Recently, our country has continuously recorded cases of re-positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus, although it has spent 14 days of follow-up isolation after being recovered and returned to the community. This situation makes people wonder about the potential contagion of the reported cases.

Re-positive cases are not healthy carriers

&quot;Not a healthy carrier, because the person in re-positive cases is only a piece of virus, not a living virus and not capable of spreading disease&quot;, that is the opinion of the People&#39;s Doctor Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh, former director of the Central Tropical Hospital for re-positive cases, was recorded in our country.



People&#39;s Doctor Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh, Former Director of Central Tropical Hospital.



To understand these cases, according to Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh, we need to understand the nature of the currently used SARS-CoV-2 virus testing method, RT-PCR: “With RT- PCR, we only take the primer to detect the specific gene segment of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, so it is essentially the detection of the genetic code of the virus rather than the whole virus. In order to discover all of us, we have to perform genetic sequencing. ”

To confirm re-positive cases, whether SARS-CoV-2 virus is still capable of functioning or not, it is necessary to be isolated and cultured. Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh said, all cases of re-positive recorded in our country after taking samples to culture, the virus did not develop.



Of the 11 Covid-19 patients discharged from the hospital on May 5, two were positive again (BN74 and BN137).



&quot;These evidences show that the previous RT-PCR test result actually detected only viral RNA fragments and could be considered as corpses of viruses,&quot; the expert stressed.

In fact, re-positive cases in our country do not have any clinical signs, patients after hospitalization are healthy again, eat and sleep normally. During follow-up at the hospital also does not need to be treated with any medicine. All SARS-CoV-2 virus tests after a patient is hospitalized for a while are negative.

Among these patients, some people in isolation in the community have come into contact with family members. However, all cases of F1 and F2 have given negative results. Cases of re-positive have also been reported, and these cases are not infectious to anyone.



Sharing on the day of discharge, BN74 and BN137 reported that, although they themselves tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus, they were healthy and had no symptoms.



“SARS-CoV-2 is a new virus, so the world needs a lot of time to study the pathogenesis and the basic science of the immune response of this virus. For cases of re-positive, also need to study more about the patient&#39;s antibodies. However, in terms of public health, we do not need to be afraid of relapse cases ”- Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh concluded.

The SARS-CoV-2 virus in each country is a unique variant

Besides re-positive cases, Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh also shared more about the characteristics of SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to him, the special feature of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, compared to other corona viruses such as SARS-CoV (causing severe acute respiratory syndrome) or MERS-CoV (causing Middle East respiratory syndrome) It is the ability to transform so diverse. The SARS-CoV-2 virus present in every country, including Vietnam, is slightly different from the original virus in Wuhan City, China.


&quot;The experts have sequenced the genes of the SARS-CoV-2 viruses that cause disease in countries across five continents, and the results show that there are many different variants of this virus,&quot; said Prof. Dr. Nguyen Van Kinh said.

In addition to the possibility of mutation, the observed damage on the patient&#39;s body, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, is also different from its &quot;close relatives&quot;. Specifically, when Covid-19 patients were admitted to the hospital, they usually did not progress immediately, but the lung lesions appeared only nearly a week later, this is very different from SARS (SARS patients often develop severe pneumonia immediately after when hospitalized).


This expert analyzed: “Unlike SARS, MERS or influenza, Covid-19 caused lesions on the edge of the lungs, the bottom of the lungs before then spread to the center, so at the beginning the patient did not show symptoms. clear respiratory depression, oxygen exchange ability is still normal. However, the lung damage then proceeds very quickly, initially from the nodular lesions, then aggregating into lobes and worse patients will suffer from respiratory failure. ”


Minh Nhat




Tag:


COVID-19

re-positive

virus




