URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/ket-thuc-1-thang-gay-quy-113-tram-rua-tay-da-chien-hoan-thanh-20200429160013373.htm
ID : DANT2020042900017

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 16:30
Title : End of 1 month fund raising: 113 field hand washing stations completed
Ariticle : 

One bad day, your motorbike broke, money on mo, suddenly heard the parting words light weight. Are you stuck and wondering why the world is so unlucky and callous? But, the remaining 364 days when the motorbike is on the road, wallet, happiness, do you dispel the inherent negativity to feel lucky and grateful for the warm days?

So did the plague, which came unexpectedly, and rarely, but left us bewildered and tired. Seeing the unwanted endings of thousands of closed inns, overcrowded hospitals, frozen accounts and neglected lives overwhelmed helplessness. But don&#39;t just tolerate negative numbers, tilt your head and look from another angle, so much of the quiet effort is taking place every day, happiness is still blooming, the numbers of &quot;winning&quot; increase rapidly. up more spiritual than quantitative meaning, enough for us to warm and smile: Oh, how beautiful life!


The journey &quot;Building 100 field hand washing stations - For a Healthy Vietnam&quot; was organized by Lifebuoy in collaboration with the Institute of Occupational and Environmental Health (under the Ministry of Health) and the Central Union of the Youth Union. In the past 30 years, Vietnam has received signals of &quot;exceeding the threshold&quot;. The public health awareness has never been more exciting than that.

With more than 57,000 participating videos, more than 209,000 shares contributed to the &quot;super huge&quot; fund of 2.5 billion dongs, corresponding to 45 field-based hand washing stations contributed.


Looking back on the fundraising journey to build &quot;100 Lifebuoy field hand washing stations - For a healthy Vietnam&quot;!


From the ministries and branches always devoted to the cause of &quot;fighting the Covid-19&quot; with many practical actions. From celebrities such as Chi Pu - ambassador of the campaign, with a series of influential positive faces accompanying, calling for raising the awareness of body hygiene to millions of followers. From young to old, workers to farmers, students to doctors, regardless of rank, occupation, ethnicity, regions all contribute their inherent abilities with the spiritually loving and resilience.

All have created a &quot;miracle&quot; to make the handwashing dance of Jealousy Ms. Vy - a good trend on social networks into a strong wave, which is hidden behind the positive, optimistic and belief in future.


However, in response to the complicated developments of the Covid-19 epidemic and timely support to protect the health of the post-social gap population, during the fundraising period, Lifebuoy also conducted parallel construction simultaneously. increase the number of stations than expected. After only 2 days, the program ended, 113 hand washing stations have &quot;red&quot; all provinces across the country with a total value of more than 6.3 billion. Each station will provide Lifebuoy clean water and soap free to 1,000 people / day.

Moreover, in order to serve the school&#39;s sanitation and disinfection, contributing to improving school health in general, Lifebuoy cooperated with the Ministry of Education and Training to transfer 180,000 germicidal soap to 1,000 primary schools in Provinces at high risk of infection.

At the same time, to always stand side by side with the medical team of nurses, nurses, volunteers, and citizens - the unsung heroes at the front line of the disease fight, in the framework of the Unilever-Public cooperation Unilever Vietnam and the Ministry of Health for the &quot;Firmly Vietnam&quot; program, through the Central Committee of the Vietnam Fatherland Front, 21 tons of hand wash water and 5.5 tons of Lifebuoy dry hand gel (total value was VND 3.5 billion) supported by more than 100 hospitals, health facilities and isolation areas across the country,


It seems that washing hands becomes easier for the motorbike driver who is huddled in the sun, the wives&#39; mothers, the cooking market, and the curious young class who want to touch everything around. but discover the world. And it seems that the line of defense is also stronger, so that we have the opportunity to wait until tomorrow - the day when the blue sky is clear, welcoming the peace to return.

Always raising awareness whether in the &quot;plague valley&quot; or the &quot;peaceful peaks&quot;

While in the &quot;plague valley,&quot; the person who obeys the order to socialize, just sit still at home, and diligently wash his hands in any form to feel secure. But when peace was restored, everything moved back to the inherent order, no longer having to worry about Covid-19, the &quot;forgetful&quot; nature that made us more distracted with life - something that was just a while ago. A few days, a few weeks, we always cherish and cherish.

The dangers are always there. Polluted air, dust, especially fine dust cause irritation of the airways, pathogens, hand, foot and mouth, diarrhea, typhoid ... which always exist, threatening public health.


To prepare to confront any form of the future, whether an outbreak such as the plague claimed the lives of 25 million people in Europe, or total control like the SARS epidemic in 2003, Methods to improve resistance and prevent infection are still essential. Keeping the habit of washing hands right with soap is not only a &quot;self-vaccination&quot; effective for Covid-19, but also reduces the risk of infecting &quot;enemies&quot; that we temporarily forget.

Don&#39;t wait until the water reaches your feet to jump or get sick, build and practice your daily hand washing routine today. For a healthy Vietnam!

Truong Thinh




Tag:


Lifebuoy

field hand washing station




