URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/can-than-voi-thu-cung-mua-covid-19-20200429125024404.htm
ID : DANT2020042900011

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 12:50
Title : Be careful with pets during the Covid-19 season
Ariticle : 

For pets, the World Health Organization (WHO) also emphasizes handwashing and warns that domestic pets are at risk of giving humans other common and dangerous bacteria like E.coli. Or Salmonella ...

Concerned about: rabies, parasites

Recently, a pet dog in Hong Kong had a &quot;weak positive&quot; result with the new corona virus SARS-CoV-2 causing Covid-19, while its owner was also a Covid-19 patient. WHO also confirmed this but said there was no evidence that the dog was transmitted from the owner or vice versa.

According to experts, this is not something to be confused. Even without this disease, lovers of dogs and cats are still advised to always wash their hands immediately after caring for pets and to avoid contact with strange cats and dogs. Because diseases that have been proven as rabies or diseases of dogs and cats parasites are of primary concern.

According to Assoc. Prof. Dr. Tran Phu Manh Sieu, Deputy Director of Nguyen Trai Hospital, one of the things that need attention is dog roundworm larvae (Toxocara canis), cats (Toxocara cati). Folk sometimes referred to as &quot;dog flukes&quot; but it is not a common tapeworm found in shepherds in countries or raising sheep, but the larvae mentioned above, which are common in our country and other tropics.

Ascaris, cats live in their small intestine. Ascaris eggs follow the droppings and stick to the fur of these animals. If humans carry and caress dogs and cats without washing their hands and use that hand to pick up food ... then worm eggs will enter the digestive tract. In the human small intestine, the eggs will hatch into the embryo, penetrate into the intestinal wall and enter the bloodstream, from which it can follow the circulatory system to cause the host larvae syndrome, and visceral movement, such as move into eyes, liver, brain, heart muscle ...





In the current situation of the Covid-19 epidemic, health experts recommend that people should be careful when caring for pets. (Picture for illustrative purposes only) Photo: HOÀNG TRIEU


Depending on which organ Toxocara attacks, the patient will suffer from everything from persistent digestive disorders in the digestive tract, to vision loss, blindness (in the eye) or brain tumors, epilepsy ... (in the brain).

Another risk is rabies, which increases in hot weather. &quot;Not only dogs but also cats, because cats are also pets that can carry rabies. Being bitten or scratched by dogs, cats must go to the hospital immediately to be checked. The sooner the rabies vaccination is effective , do not try to wait to see if the animal is sick or not, because sometimes the animal has a rabies, the person bitten has no cure. So don&#39;t hesitate to go to the clinic and get the vaccine early. &quot;- Assoc. Prof. Tran Phu Manh Super emphasized.

Wash pets regularly

There is no evidence that pets can carry the new corona virus and can transmit the virus to humans, although health experts still recommend that people take care of their pets.

&quot;In the current situation of disease, avoid contact with strange animals, including pets. If you have dogs or cats in your home, you should not kiss and inhale the animals and wash your hands with water and clean your hands. soap after touching pets. A mask can be worn when in contact with them. Pets also need to be bathed, cleaned regularly and fully vaccinated &quot;- Specialist II Nguyen Minh Tien, Deputy Director of the City Children&#39;s Hospital (HCMC), recommends.

Dr. Nguyen Minh Tien explained that the new coronavirus found in animals is not surprising. Coronavirus is a very large &quot;family&quot;, divided into four main groups: alpha and beta groups encountered in humans, gamma and delta groups encountered in animals. The alpha group includes coronaviruses that cause mild, common illnesses like colds Beta group is more dangerous, including SARS, MERS or new corona virus.

In the guidelines for shoppers and vendors in &quot;wet markets in China and Southeast Asia&quot;, WHO also stressed the need to be careful when handling meat and animal products on sale, Do not put your hands on your eyes / nose / mouth before you can clean your hands with soap and water. When cooking, use special knives and cutting boards for raw meat. In addition, avoid wild dogs and cats in the market.


According to health experts, need to clean your hands after each contact with pets, fully vaccinate them, go to the doctor immediately after being bitten, scratching is the right thing to do whether or not there is an epidemic.

According to Employees





Tag:


parasites

pet disease




