URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/xac-dinh-loai-vi-khuan-lam-tang-nguy-co-mac-ung-thu-len-42-lan-20200502094011490.htm
ID : DANT2020050300008

Date : Sunday 03/05/2020 - 11:38
Title : Determining the type of bacteria increases the risk of cancer by 42 times
Ariticle : 

Colorectal cancer is a cancer that starts in the colon or rectum. According to the US Centers for Disease Control, colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the country. About 90% of people diagnosed with colorectal cancer belong to people over 50.


In addition to age, colorectal cancer has many other risk factors such as family history, genetic symptoms, obesity, lack of exercise, a diet low in fruits and vegetables or inflammatory bowel disease. Even the list of risk factors is expanding, for example, recently, a study pointed out the close relationship between colorectal cancer and some anaerobic bacteria. in the human body.

Anaerobic bacteria do not need oxygen to function in life, and they are always present in our body, like the intestines, which usually won&#39;t cause an infection. However, many studies have also shown a link between anaerobic bacteria and colorectal cancer.

Going back to the research mentioned at the beginning of this article, this scientific work was done by experts from Odense University Hospital, Denmark, based on the medical records collected by 2 million people, in 2007 and 2016, including 45,760 cases of sepsis.


Of the 45,760 cases of blood infection mentioned above, 496 had subsequently developed colorectal cancer (accounting for 1.1%), even as many as 241 people had colorectal cancer in the first year. septicemia.

The authors found that the anaerobic bacteria that cause sepsis are associated with a significantly increased risk of colorectal cancer. For example, people with Clostridium septicum infection have a 42-fold higher risk of developing colorectal cancer the following year. Specifically, 20.8% of those infected with Clostridium septicum developed colorectal cancer, while the figure in the control group stopped at 0.5%.


&quot;In this large-scale study, we found that people who were infected with blood from a certain bacterium, were 42 times more likely to develop colorectal cancer than those who were infected,&quot; he said. blood infection due to aerobic bacteria such as e.Coli or control group &quot;- Representative of author group said.

Co-author of the study, Dr. Ulrik Justesen, Odense University Hospital, emphasized: “Despite a fairly clear link between anaerobic bacterial infection and colorectal cancer, we still haven&#39;t been able to confirm it. specify the mechanism of this relationship. At this statistical level of research, we are not sure whether the bacteria that directly caused colorectal cancer or the bacterial sepsis caused the disease to develop. This is the same as the question: Does the chicken first or the egg first? &quot;.

The authors also emphasized that the results of the study opened a promising door for a microbiological cancer screening and early diagnosis method. Besides, we can prevent colorectal cancer in the direction of controlling the reproduction of this bacterium.

Minh Nhat

According to MNT

