URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868901
ID : GPHN2020042900096

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : 101-year-old New York woman survives Spanish flu, cancer and now Covid- 19
Ariticle : 
Angelina Friedman is 101 years old and at her age can proudly claim that she has beaten throughout her life the so-called Spanish flu, cancer and now coronavirus, which has mercilessly claimed thousands of deaths in New York, especially the elderly.
Friedman, who lives in a nursing home upstate - centers that have been severely beaten by the pandemic - was diagnosed with COVID-19 last March but beat it as it did with the Spanish flu last century and subsequently overcome cancer, The New York Post reported on Tuesday.
The elderly are the most vulnerable population to be exposed to the virus and thousands have died in the country, particularly in senior residences, deaths that have occupied media headlines for baiting in some centres.
According to Angelina Friedman's family, she has survived because she has "superhuman DNA."
"My mother is a survivor," says her daughter Joanne Merola, who recalls that Friedman has also survived " internal bleeding and cancer."
The daughter of Italian immigrants, Friedman was born in 1918 on a boat en route to the U.S. at a time when the Spanish flu was ravaging, as the coronavirus does now, but it came out unscathed.
Her mother died of childbirth, so she and her two sisters joined their father in Brooklyn County, where she grew up with ten siblings.
Friedman got married and she and her husband were diagnosed with cancer. "She survived but he didn't," her daughter recalled.
On March 21, she was taken to a hospital for a simple medical procedure and testing the virus tested positive.
After a week at the health centre she was sent to the geriatrician, where she was kept in isolation until she tested negative for the pandemic on April 20.
The first thing Friedman asked for was knitting thread, he also indicated his daughter, who has not been able to see his mother because of a problem with his back or call him because she is deaf.
However, she had a message for her parents: "Stay ahead, Mom. You're going to outlive us all." Efe