URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006889950
ID : GPHN2020050200066

Date : 2020-05-01 20:45:00
Title : EXPERTS WARN OF OVERLAP OF VIRUS, FLU IN FALL
Ariticle : 
Every year, just as the leaves turn, the influenza virus begins its sweep across the United States, sickening millions of Americans and killing tens of thousands. This year, however, it could be just one fist in a one-two punch of seasonal respiratory diseases and COVID-19, Pittsburgh doctors warn.
"You can only plan for the worst-case scenario," said Dr. Joe Suyama, chief of emergency services at UPMC Magee-Womens Hospital, stressing the disastrous impact that a confluence of infections ? a "second wave" of COVID-19 happening at the same time as the flu season ? could potentially have on the hospital system.
The annual spike in respiratory diseases, including influenza and rhinovirus, begins in the autumn, Dr. Suyama said. According to federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates, the flu alone typically kills between 30,000 and 50,000 Americans each year on average. The 2018-2019 season, for example, is estimated to have killed between 26,339 and 52,664 people.
A second wave of COVID-19 could make that dramatically worse.
"There's a possibility that the assault of the virus on our nation next winter will actually be even more difficult than the one we just went through," CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield said in an interview with The Washington Post last week.
The issues are multiple.
There is a major overlap in symptoms, according to Dr. Nitin Bhanot, director of the Infectious Disease Division at Allegheny Health Network. Both influenza and the novel coronavirus often initially appear as coughing, a fever and shortness of breath.
"It becomes difficult to differentiate between them," Dr. Suyama said, noting that "you can't tell within the first few hours or days whether or not it's COVID."
Both doctors noted that because of the overlap, there would be a need to use limited testing supplies to test for both COVID-19 and the flu for anyone admitted to the hospital with respiratory symptoms. The mere possibility of the presence of COVID-19 would require additional precautions on the part of health care workers, and the two viruses are treated differently once confirmed.
The tests for both diseases use the same swabs, reagents and machines ? equipment in high demand. Simultaneous waves of infection could strain the supplies of these materials, as well as personal protective equipment, ventilators and hospital beds, Dr. Suyama said.
Distinguishing between the two diseases is crucial for hospitals because, despite their initially similar symptoms, the flu and the novel coronavirus have very different outcomes. The state saw just 102 confirmed flu deaths this season, state Health Secretary Dr. Rachel Levine said Wednesday, whereas COVID-19 has killed more than 2,000 people, even with social distancing measures in place to suppress the spread.
"No one, when this came out, had immunity to [COVID-19]," Dr. Levine said. "Studies have shown that it is more contagious than the flu, and it is potentially more lethal than the flu ? probably at least 10 times more lethal, maybe between 10 and 20 times more lethal than the flu."
Both Pittsburgh doctors emphasized the uncertainty inherent in predictive epidemiology. There is no guarantee, after all, that this year's flu season will be a normal or bad one, or that there will be a second wave of the novel coronavirus.
"We don't know how things will pan out," Dr. Bhanot said. "It's anybody's guess."
But he made one firm prediction on coronavirus: It's very unlikely there will be a vaccine, much less a widely available one, by this autumn. Thus, because it's unlikely COVID-19 will be completely gone by the fall, there could be at least some overlap in COVID-19 and influenza as cold weather sets in. The question is: how much?
"The hope is that things decline, and stay flat over the summer," Dr. Suyama said of COVID-19. But he noted that, in historical pandemics, there has been a second wave, one that is usually worse than the first.
"If I had a magic wand, I'd give you the answer," Dr. Bhanot said.
Regardless of whether COVID-19 makes a resurgence, both doctors stressed the importance of getting vaccinated against the flu. While the vaccine is not perfect, it does reduce the risk of infection by 40%-60% during years when it is well-matched with the dominant strain, according to the CDC.
Dr. Bhanot pointed out that precautions Pennsylvanians are taking now against the coronavirus also are effective against the flu, including regular hand-washing, sanitizing surfaces, mask-wearing and social distancing. But the best way to prevent getting the flu is vaccination, he said.
"At least get vaccinated," Dr. Bhanot stressed.
Dr. Suyama said an early rollout of the flu vaccine this year may encourage more people to get vaccinated, and is possible because the formula has already been chosen, but that a potential downside is the need for a revaccination later in the season.
Amie Downs, a spokeswoman for Allegheny County, said in an email statement that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the county has "not yet begun looking at the 2020-21 flu season in any detail, and do not have a time frame for when that may occur either."
Vaccinations against the flu are important for two reasons, Dr. Suyama said. They protect the vaccinated person from getting the flu, and, in the current public health climate, they also lower one's risk of being mistaken for a COVID-19 patient, thus alleviating some stress on the hospital.
The latter reason makes flu vaccinations even more important this year.
CREDIT: By Kyle Mullins, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette