URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006895652
ID : GPHN2020050300042

Date : 2020-05-03 22:53:00
Title : State govt steps up surveillance process ahead of deluge
Ariticle : 
PATNA, May 3 -- In view of the stranded migrants and students who are slated to come back to the state, the government has stepped up the surveillance process.
The government has even started the testing and isolation of persons showing signs of influenza-like illness, especially at block and village level as per the strategy advised by the ministry of health and empowered group on Covid-19.
"The states, having large migrant population returning home, are to step up surveillance of people with influenza-like illness. Detailed guidelines regarding the same have been issued. Strict tracking is important so that suspects can be immediately isolated," said C K Mishra, environment ministry secretary and chairman, empowered group -6.
Mishra is heading the empowered group of officers on availability of hospitals and allied services to tackle Covid-19.
On Saturday, district magistrates (DMs) in various districts, especially those expecting high number of migrants and students , issued letters to block development officers ( BDOs) and panchayat representatives giving directions of strict compliance of surveillance norms.
The DMs have also increased the quarantine centres and started adding isolation beds in anticipation of large number of migrants reaching villages. DM Kishganganj Aditya Prakash said, "The administration has set up the space with a capacity to accommodate 18,000 people for screening and quarantine." We are expecting over 8,000 people in the next few days.
"The people coming from the red zone will be screened at the district and block level and the mukhiyas have been entrusted with the responsibility of keeping a close tab on people coming from outside and sending them for screening," said Prakash, adding that over 770 beds have been kept ready for patients with symptoms.
Meanwhile, the panchayat representatives and BDOs have been asked to make public announcements in the rural areas to maintain vigil about persons coming from outside in the next five days and ensure that the migrants, students are screened at the block level screening camps. In Samastipur, the administration has set up the space with a capacity to accommodate over 15,000 people in view of the return of migrants from other states. Like Kishganganj, the district has a high number of migrant population in various states.
" On Saturday, 81 people from Rajasthan and 80 from UP came by a special train. We are making all the arrangements for screening of the migrants returning home, " said DM, Samastipur, Shashank Subhankar.
Siwan, Gopalganj and other districts have also issued similar directions based on the instructions of the panchayati raj department, sources said.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Hindustan Times.