URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907307
ID : GPHN2020050500120

Date : 2020-05-01 03:59:00
Title : Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria; A novel CRISPR-based malaria diagnostic capable of Plasmodium detection, speciation, and drug-resistance genotyping (Published April 2, 2020)
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week - According to news reporting based on a preprint abstract, our journalists obtained the following quote sourced from biorxiv.org:
“CRISPR-based diagnostics are a new class of highly sensitive and specific assays with multiple applications in infectious disease diagnosis. SHERLOCK, or Specific High-Sensitivity Enzymatic Reporter UnLOCKing, is one such CRISPR-based diagnostic that combines recombinase polymerase pre-amplification, CRISPR-RNA base-pairing, and LwCas13a activity for nucleic acid detection.
“We developed SHERLOCK assays for malaria capable of detecting all Plasmodium species known to cause malaria in humans and species-specific detection of P. vivax and P. falciparum, the species responsible for the majority of malaria cases worldwide.
“We validated these assays against parasite genomic DNA and achieved analytical sensitivities ranging from 2.5-18.8 parasites per reaction.
“We further tested these assays using a diverse panel of 123 clinical samples from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, and Thailand and pools of Anopheles mosquitoes from Thailand. When compared to real-time PCR, the P. falciparum assay achieved 94% sensitivity and 94% specificity in clinical samples.
“In addition, we developed a SHERLOCK assay capable of detecting the dihydropteroate synthetase (dhps) single nucleotide variant A581G associated with P. falciparum sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine resistance. Compared to amplicon-based deep sequencing, the dhps SHERLOCK assay achieved 73% sensitivity and 100% specificity when applied to a panel of 43 clinical samples, with false-negative calls only at lower parasite densities.
“These novel SHERLOCK assays have potential to spawn a new generation of molecular diagnostics for malaria and demonstrate the versatility of CRISPR-based diagnostic approaches. One-sentence summaryNovel malaria SHERLOCK assays enabled robust detection, speciation, and genotyping of Plasmodium spp. in diverse samples collected in Africa and Asia.”
This preprint may not have been peer-reviewed. For more information on this research see: biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.01.017962v1
Keywords for this news article include: Diagnostics and Screening, Drug Resistance, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Malaria, Mosquito-Borne Diseases, Plasmodium falciparum, Protozoan Infections, Tropical Disease.
Keywords for this news article include: Drug Resistance, Tropical Disease, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Protozoan Infections, Plasmodium falciparum, Diagnostics and Screening, Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC