URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006894090
ID : GPHN2020050300006

Date : 2020-05-03 14:25:00
Title : How COVID-19 restrictions are affecting health
Ariticle : 
Flu numbers are down. Less road fatalities have been reported. Emergency departments are quiet.
Social distancing and restrictions on public gatherings appear to be stopping the spread of COVID-19 in Australia, but these measures are also producing a range of other health outcomes - good and bad.
Influenza cases are dramatically lower this year, with 20,216 cases reported to the National Notifiable Disease Surveillance System compared with 43,108 cases for the same period in 2019.
"Influenza levels in the community are currently low due to social distancing measures and better hand hygiene," a NSW Health spokeswoman said. However, a spokesman for the federal Health Department said the number of influenza cases in 2020 is 26 per cent higher than the average number of cases over the past five years.
There have also been significant declines in other communicable diseases such as Legionnaires' disease, whooping cough, sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydia and gonorrhea, dengue and Q fever - but an increase
in Rotavirus.
Chance Pistoll, a GP and lecturer in primary care at Melbourne Medical School, said there had been a significant increase in people attending their GP for the influenza vaccine.
"This is a really great unintended outcome and it looks at this stage we might have dodged a bullet with respect to avoiding the worst of the flu season," he said.
There is mounting evidence people with chronic health problems are avoiding visits to the doctor, Dr Pistoll said. "Most GP practices have seen a 20-30 per cent reduction in patient's coming in during the pandemic."
Dr Pistoll said there had been a 75 per cent reduction in diabetes tests ordered by GPs in Victoria and NSW, while referrals for new cancer diagnoses had fallen by about a third. "There is a real risk we could see a significant upswing in mortality after the pandemic due to deaths from preventable illnesses."
Health authorities warned people in March to stay away from emergency departments unless they required urgent medical attention as hospitals braced for the impact of coronavirus.
However, St Vincent's Hospital has had fewer patients at its emergency department. The ED's medical director Paul Preisz said "it is difficult to imagine that the current lockdown is not a major cause". "We have some indirect evidence that social distancing, hand washing and other measures to combat COVID-19 have very likely decreased the transmission of other viruses including colds and flu," he said.
NSW recorded 24 less road fatalities in the year to March 31 compared with the previous 12 months - there were five less road deaths in March compared to the average monthly toll of 105 deaths.
The United Nations Population Fund predicted last week that domestic violence would soar 20 per cent because of the global lockdown. But the number of domestic violence assaults recorded by police did not increase in March. The NSW Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research said this could be due to victims being less able to report because of home confinement with their perpetrator.
Maree Teeson, director of The Matilda Centre for Research in Mental Health and Substance Use at the University of Sydney, said there were reports from Australia and Britain showing a rise in poor mental health - especially among young adults and people with insecure jobs. "Economic downturn, loss of employment and financial stressors are well recognised risk factors for poor mental health and suicide," she said.
Dr Pistoll said there had been an increase in patients with mental health issues relating to COVID-19 and the social and economic fallout of the lockdown measures.
"I wouldn't be surprised if in hindsight a big upswing in the burden of mental health is one of the legacies of the pandemic in Australia," he said.
'It looks at this stage we might have dodged a bullet.' Dr Chance Pistoll