URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006883953
ID : GPHN2020050100156

Date : 2020-04-30 22:30:00
Title : Bovine Diseases and Conditions - Bovine Tuberculosis; Findings on Bovine Tuberculosis Reported by Investigators at University of Passo Fundo (Bovine tuberculosis: diagnosis in dairy cattle through the association of analyzes)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 30 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Agriculture Week -- A new study on Bovine Diseases and Conditions - Bovine Tuberculosis is now available. According to news originating from Passo Fundo, Brazil, by VerticalNews correspondents, research stated, "Tuberculosis is a chronic anthropozoonosis of worldwide occurrence, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis and its variants. In Brazil, the National Program for the Control and Eradication of Brucellosis and Tuberculosis in cattle, is responsible for diagnosing and the correctly allocate positive animals, but there is still a lack of definitive diagnosis of the disease."
Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research from the University of Passo Fundo, "This study described the use of five diagnostic tools that can be used, preferably together, for the confirmation of suspected cases. These tools included the clinical examination comparative cervical tuberculin test, macroscopic findings during the slaughtering and histopathology of the damaged tissues followed by histochemistry. We evaluated a total of 211 dairy cattle, where 15.1% (32/211) had classic clinical signs of bovine tuberculosis, 74 (35%) showed reactivity in the comparative cervical tuberculin test. Of the total number of animals, 141 (66.8%) were referred for sanitary slaughter due to legal and control issues in the outbreaks of the disease. In the follow-up of slaughtering and inspection of viscera and carcasses, 74 (52.5%) had macroscopic lesions compatible with bovine tuberculosis, while 67 (47.5%) showed no visible changes. During the inspection, fragments of lymph nodes and liver and lung parenchyma were collected from five cattle with macroscopic lesions and five with no lesions. The histopathological analysis showed numerous areas of caseous necrosis with or without central calcification and granulomatous inflammatory infiltrate."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "In the special staining of Ziehl-Neelsen, numerous acid-fast bacilli were evidenced in all cases."
For more information on this research see: Bovine tuberculosis: diagnosis in dairy cattle through the association of analyzes. Pesquisa Veterinaria Brasileira, 2020;40(1):12-16. Pesquisa Veterinaria Brasileira can be contacted at: Revista Pesquisa Veterinaria Brasileira, Embrapa-Saude Animal, KM47 Seropedica, 23851-970 Rio Janeiro, Brazil.
The news correspondents report that additional information may be obtained from E.L. Dickel, University of Passo Fundo, Famv, Grad Program Bioexpt, Campus 1, Rodovia Br 285, Br-99052900 Passo Fundo, Rs, Brazil. Additional authors for this research include L.L. Dametto, E.D. dos Santos and L.R. Santos.
Keywords for this news article include: Passo Fundo, Brazil, South America, Actinomycetales Infections, Bovine Diseases and Conditions, Bovine Tuberculosis, Gram-Positive Bacteria, Gram-Positive Bacterial Infections, Mycobacterium Infections, Tuberculosis, University of Passo Fundo.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC