URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006889987
ID : GPHN2020050200076

Date : 2020-05-01 21:33:00
Title : Remdesivir Affirms the American Way; Gilead Sciences failed for years to prove its efficacy, but patent law and markets helped it to persevere.
Ariticle : 
The Food and Drug Administration has authorized the use of Gilead Sciences' drug remdesivir to treat severely ill Covid-19 patients. Previously, Gilead announced that it was donating all its existing supply, 1.5 million doses, free of charge. The FDA's Emergency Use Authorization and the company's extraordinary action give a tremendous boost to a world in crisis.
Painstaking science has been the biggest factor in remdesivir's success so far, but America's market and legal system also helped Gilead make this contribution to human health. In this system, privately owned biotech and pharmaceutical companies, financed by investor capital, seek to invent, develop and distribute new medications. Patent protection provides drug companies with additional incentives over and above those normally provided by the market to undertake the necessary risks. The incentives come from governmental protection of intellectual property and the associated ability temporarily to charge prices above the marginal cost of production. Even so, drug companies and their investors reap rewards from their successes and suffer losses when their efforts fail.
Drug development is fundamentally a process of discovery. Scientists discover what works against disease and how to formulate chemical and biological compounds that deliver medicines to patients. To continue discovering new drugs, pharmaceutical companies must cover the costs of the inevitable failures. About 70% of drugs never make it to market because they prove ineffective or too toxic. Drugs typically gain approval only after many years of development. Charging more than the cost of production, at a price customers are willing to pay, allows developers to recoup these costs.
Remdesivir is a case in point. Gilead's scientists determined more than a decade ago that the drug would be an effective antiviral, and tested its effects on various viruses. Research on remdesivir as a treatment for childhood respiratory diseases began in 2010. Though the drug ultimately failed in that purpose, Gilead continued to research its potential. Several years later the company discovered that the drug might work against Ebola. But after several remarkable individual success stories, the drug again failed to live up to its promise. Fortunately for patients, other drugs became available.
Despite this setback, Gilead continued its research. Its scientists uncovered evidence that remdesivir might work against two coronaviruses, those behind SARS and MERS. But with the major outbreaks of those diseases having passed, there weren't enough patients for pivotal human trials.
When the novel coronavirus was identified a few months ago, Gilead immediately began working with the FDA, along with other health agencies in the U.S. and world-wide, to expedite human trials of remdesivir. Meanwhile, the FDA approved compassionate-use access to the drug for more than 2,000 gravely ill patients.
Thus the FDA's emergency approval of remdesivir comes after more than a decade of dedicated research, overcoming failures and making costly investments. The long development time, unexpected setbacks and mounting costs are the norm in drug development. The costs are funded by reinvested profits and supported by risk-taking shareholders with a long time horizon. America's laws and market system, which let companies like Gilead temporarily set prices above the cost of production in normal times, enabled the development and donation of this potent treatment for the novel virus.
Progressive politicians and critics of the pharmaceutical industry have proposed a national price-control policy as part of a government-controlled health-care system. They seize on the difference between the price companies charge for a drug and the cost of producing it, which can be substantial, to claim that pharmaceutical companies are profiteering at the expense of patients. The critics misunderstand drug development, ignoring the R&D cost behind the drug and, more important, the costs of all the company's other drugs that never made it through the discovery process.
By eliminating the profits that fund discovery, price controls would stifle the innovation drug developers have sustained for more than a century. The eventual outcome would be fewer lifesaving drugs. If industry critics and progressive politicians had their way years ago, remdesivir likely would not be available today.
Careful science, the private market and the American legal system have produced a long line of advances against disease, including an extraordinary array of medications to fight bacterial infection, cancer, cardiovascular disease, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, cystic fibrosis, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis and many more killers. Remdesivir is the latest contribution to this progress.
Mr. Cogan is lead independent director and Mr. Shultz is director emeritus of Gilead Sciences' board. Both are senior fellows at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.