URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006891129
ID : GPHN2020050200121

Date : 2020-05-02 04:11:00
Title : Examining  the research FACT BOX
Ariticle : 
In the past two weeks, researchers have begun announcing results from studies showing there have been many more coronavirus infections in communities than were previously recorded.
The debates began immediately. What did the study results actually mean? If more people were infected than previously known, did that mean the death rate is lower than previously thought? Is the coronavirus more like the flu, after all? And are we close to "herd immunity," meaning enough people are infected that the virus won't spread easily anymore?
These studies all were based on antibody tests, which are diagnostics that can look in a person's blood and see if there is evidence of prior infection. In the past month, as these tests have reached the market, researchers have launched large-scale studies, known as sero-surveys (sero is short for serology, the study of blood serum). By running these surveys, scientists are able to start estimating how many people have been infected, which can give us information about how deadly the disease is and where it was most concentrated geographically.
Antibody studies are going to be important in helping us understand the coronavirus and how to fight this pandemic. We're all going to be hearing more about antibody tests and surveys in the coming months. So here's a primer on what they do.
When the coronavirus emerged, the first type of diagnostic that scientists raced to produce was a test that could detect an active infection. Those tests will continue to be necessary, but they can only catch the virus red-handed. Once a patient has recovered, that test won't come back positive.
There aren't enough to test every person who has only mild symptoms, let alone identify people who are asymptomatic carriers. So that means the case counts we see reported are an undercount. The question is: how much of an undercount? The only way to know is to test a random sample of a given population and see who has antibodies - proteins in the blood that indicate past infections.
Once you know the percentage of people who have been infected (the word for that is "sero-prevalence"), then you can calculate what's known as the "infection fatality rate (IFR)".
So far, the death rates you've seen in headlines have largely been case fatality rates, which are the number of deaths reported divided by the number of cases confirmed with a diagnostic test. That's all we've been able to report so far. You should expect the case fatality rate to be higher than the infection fatality rate, because there are more people infected than people who have been able to be tested. This is one reason why sero- surveys are so useful to us.
Setting up a sero-survey correctly means you need to test a random population. For now, most of the studies are focused on asking the most basic question, which is, what percentage of a given population has been infected?
To do that properly, researchers need to test a random sample of the population.
The ideal way to conduct a sero- survey, according to Natalie Dean, assistant professor of biostatistics at the University of Florida, would be to randomly select addresses from a database of the population you want to survey and then send a team of researchers door to door to collect samples. The World Health Organization's guidance for such studies recommends inviting all people who live in the household to participate in the study, including children.
But sending teams door to door is labour intensive and potentially also a contagion risk, not to mention that people staying home may not want to let someone in at this time. "Repeated cross-sectional studies - where they're repeating it every week - are valuable, even if there's some sort of bias, because you can look at trends," Dean said.
Another key question for any sero-survey is how accurate the test was. Tons of antibody tests have hit the market over the past few weeks, and their accuracy is still being scrutinised. Not all tests have the same degree of accuracy.
Even a test that is good can give more false positives than true positives when the prevalence of a disease is very low in a population.
Let's say you're running a sero- survey among 1 000 people and only 4% of the population is actually infected. Presume the test correctly identifies positives 100% of the time, meaning it is 100% "sensitive" in  scientific parlance. With a 4% infection rate, the test would accurately identify those 40 people who are positive.
But say the test is 95% "specific", meaning it returns false positives 5% of the time. Then among the 960 people who are truly negative, 48  people would get a false positive. In this scenario, more people would get a false positive result than a true positive.
You can have more confidence in the signal you're getting when there's a higher percentage of the population that's been infected, as in a situation like New York City, because the number of true positives would drown out a smaller number of false positives.
Unfortunately, New York didn't share much information on how accurate its tests were when Governor Andrew Cuomo first announced the findings of its study on April 23, so the experts I called said they didn't have much to scrutinise.
As more of these studies read out in the future, there are probably going  to be a lot of headlines that say: "Study finds (X) times more people in (place) infected than confirmed case counts".
These headlines may be accurate, but that does not mean your city is close to "herd immunity", which is when the vast majority of a given population have been infected. In such situations, the virus has a hard time infecting the remaining people, because there aren't enough carriers.
To achieve herd immunity, scientists say that a community would need to have at least 60% of its population infected.
Other scientists have told me 80% to 90%. The reason this percent- age isn't precisely known is because it depends on things like exactly how contagious the virus is and also whether people who have been infected are immune forever, or if they lose immunity, which researchers also are furiously working to figure out.
The other way to achieve herd immunity is with a vaccine, which is far safer and doesn't involve millions of people getting sick. But developing vaccines is a slow process, so achieving herd immunity that way won't happen any time soon.
Now let's talk about the flu. Comparisons to the flu keep coming back like a many-headed hydra, and they roared back last week with a vengeance. The estimates I've seen for influenza IFR range from about 0.14% on the upper end to 0.04% on the lower end. So if the IFR for this coronavirus ends up being about 0.5%, that's still many times worse than the flu.
But that's not the main problem. Wherever this coronavirus fatality rate ends up, it doesn't change the fact that we don't have any immunity to it, which is a critical factor in why we've had to behave differently in our response to it.
Marm Kilpatrick, a professor at the University of California at Santa Cruz who studies infectious diseases, sketched out what this meant: "If  it's five times deadlier than the seasonal flu, and three times as many people are going to get it, that means we're going to get 15 times as many deaths. And 15 times 30 000, which is the middle-of-the-road kind of a seasonal flu year, that's 450 000 deaths - about half a million deaths - that's a pretty big, scary number, I think."
Dean, from the University of Florida, also notes that the discussion about how deadly Covid-19 is doesn't change the reality of how many people have died. "We know that this disease can completely decimate health-care systems, and that's important to keep in mind in terms of how we respond."
Scientists haven't yet figured out exactly what level of protection an individual has after being infected and whether the protection lasts forever (like with chickenpox) or wanes after a while.
The World Health Organization issued a scientific brief last week warning that the detection of antibodies alone shouldn't serve as a basis for an "immunity passport" allowing an individual to assume they are totally protected from reinfection.
So for now, the antibody tests are best used in these population-wide surveys, to better understand the spread of the disease, how it's being transmitted and regional infection fatality rates.
Chen is the health reporter for ProPublica
there are many reasons why the case fatality rate is a very squishy estimate.
The denominator depends on how many tests are available and how many people are seeking testing. The numerator is also shaky - for one, many people are dying at home without getting tested, and the extent to which deaths are undercounted is still unknown.
Moreover, we don't yet know  the outcome, whether recovery or death, for many patients that are identified as positive. | Caroline Chen ProPublica