URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006898999
ID : GPHN2020050400003

Date : 2020-05-02 14:34:00
Title : History Matters: Otsego County's long history of dealing with infectious diseases
Ariticle : 
This is not the first time Otsego County residents have dealt with a health crisis at the level of a pandemic — nor will it likely be the last.
In 1918, many Northern Michigan communities, including Gaylord, experienced a number of deaths from the worldwide Spanish influenza pandemic which lasted until 1920 and claimed nearly 700,000 lives in a country of 103 million people. The Oct. 25, 1918, edition of the Otsego County Herald and Times reported three local deaths the previous week from the flu, or grip, as it was commonly known, including 30-year-old resident Carl Marschner, as well as Pierson Reid, 21, and Ernest Hill, 33.
The same edition of the newspaper indicated the school board had closed schools "continuing the precautionary closing until all fear of the spread of the grip epidemic is over," and local physician Dr. G.G. Richards had reportedly been sent to hard hit Boyne City by the State Board of Health to assist in the care of influenza cases there.
At the time of the flu pandemic, the nearest hospital was in Grayling where those stricken locally with the "grip" may have gone for treatment and eventually passed away, possibly explaining why Otsego County's death count between 1918 and 1920 didn't spike up when compared to past years. From 1915 to 1917 the county, with a population of 6,000, had a total of 192 deaths compared to 185 during the pandemic years.
In the early part of the 20th century Otsego County dealt with a number of contagious diseases, including the feared smallpox. It wasn't brought under control until the development of a vaccine in 1910, which virtually eliminated the disease. Prior to a vaccine those infected were isolated together in a building. Two "pest" houses in the county, one in Dover Township and the second near the current county airport, were established for this purpose.
Other illnesses the county dealt with in the first half of the 20th century included outbreaks of measles, chicken pox, scarlet fever and typhoid fever, which rose to epidemic proportions in 1909. According to "A Step Back in Time" published by the Otsego County Historical Society, typhoid fever flared up for a number of years during the periods of summer and early fall during the 1910s. Typhoid fever, which is caused by bacteria spread through contaminated food and drinking water, was believed by residents to have been carried by human carriers. The water theory of transmission of the disease led to the construction of the first water tower in Gaylord.
It is now believed during this time Gaylord may have had its own version of the notorious "Typhoid Mary" in that of a milk delivery man and was based on the fact the outbreak ended in 1915 when he stopped making deliveries.
"Typhoid was often spread by the carrier who carried the bacteria which was spread by the handling of food and other items, yet that person did not contract the disease themselves," was stated in the "Step Back in Time" article, "Otsego County Medical Services — A Brief History." It went on to say, "Typhoid Mary, a cook in the New York area, is an excellent example. She eventually had to be confined in almost total isolation to protect the public. During her early life, working as a cook, she infected hundreds."
Infectious disease had also played a large role in Otsego County when a tuberculosis sanatorium was opened in 1937 to treat patients afflicted with the bacterial illness. Before medical treatment and a vaccination for tuberculosis was developed, isolation was the only effective means to stop the spread of transmission of the disease from person to person.
The 128-bed Northern Michigan Tuberculosis Sanatorium was dedicated Nov. 26, 1937, to serve the 37 north and central counties of Michigan at a cost of $590,000. The Nov. 25, 1937, Otsego County Herald Times stated, "The hospital is equipped with the finest and most modern equipment in every department, with Kelley-Koet X-ray equipment completely shock-proof for fluoroscopy and radiography."
A 47-bed addition to the building was completed in 1953, but as the first effective drug for the treatment of tuberculosis was developed during construction the beds were never fully utilized. By 1960, new treatment and drugs were in use, and only one of three patient floors of the sanatorium were in use at that time.
The building then saw a transition from the treatment of tuberculosis patients to that of a care facility for individuals with severe cognitive handicaps administered through the Department of Mental Health. It underwent a name change and was called the Gaylord State Home and later, the Alpine Center. The building's use as a center for the handicapped came to an end in 1981 with most of its residents being moved to group homes locally and across the state.
In 1982, the county purchased the complex of buildings for the sum of $1. The main building was renovated and the site was named the J. Richard Yuill Alpine Center. Today the buildings are used to house a number of county, state and federal agencies, including the 46th Circuit Court.