URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872480
ID : GPHN2020042900236

Date : 2020-04-29 09:33:00
Title : We must learn from this coronavirus stress test to better fight future pandemics
Ariticle : 
Confronted with the daily news, it is easy to think we are living through something unprecedented. However, Covid-19 is only the latest of a series of series of pandemics that have struck the modern world since the early nineteenth century, and which it has survived.
There was a series of cholera pandemics in the nineteenth century and repeated ones of influenza over the last two centuries. The last serious flu pandemic happened in 1968-9 and killed between one and four million people worldwide. Major pandemics have happened several times in history with some such as the Black death or the Antonine Plague of the late second century being truly devastating.
Previous pandemics can tell us quite a lot about where we are now, how we got here, and what the effects will likely be.
Historically, pandemics have spread along trade and travel routes. They typically spread throughout an ecumene, a part of the world that is economically integrated and connected. That is now the whole planet. They once spread by ships but now much more swiftly by air travel. This makes the spread quicker and harder to control.
Trade and economic integration make societies wealthier but also more vulnerable to pandemics. Lots of people and goods moving means an illness can spread more and the growth of large and connected cities provides a better environment for the spread of epidemics. This is why major epidemics tend to happen after prolonged periods of increased trade and economic integration, and have sometimes arrested or reversed that process. In the modern world, the process that makes us more vulnerable also makes us richer and more innovative, which means we are better positioned to resist pandemics and their effects than our ancestors, so this now works both ways.
Clearly though, there are certain features of the world as it now is that make a pandemic more likely, and mean that when one happens it will have a bigger effect than was the case say in 1968-9 (the date of the last serious influenza pandemic). The big ones are the nature of modern intensive livestock farming (which provides a perfect environment for novel pathogens) and pressure on wildlife habitats (which makes animal to human transmission more likely). The solutions to these two problems should be technological innovation in the first case, and the use of property rights to manage wildlife and their habitats in the second. The other problem is that while the world economy is now very efficient it is also very complex and brittle, more susceptible to disruption by natural events such as a pandemic.
Long and complex supply chains and just in time delivery make us richer but more vulnerable. The upside is that we are also now more flexible and adaptable, and this is what we need to encourage. A critical point is that many healthcare systems have proved to be efficient but with little spare capacity, because of the way they are organised, even if they have proved more resilient than many feared.
It is very likely that one result of this pandemic will be a revival of nationalism and a retreat from globalisation (the historical precedents suggest this). Some of this is inevitable and will be driven by private decisions by firms and individuals. Some though will come from a turn to nationalism by governments. We should be very careful that the baby is not thrown out with the bathwater – protectionism and nationalism is a politically dangerous mixture as twentieth century history shows. One possible result of Covid-19 will be a turn to seriousness and an abrupt halt to a lot of intellectual and political frivolity. At the same time, there will also be a turn to a live for the day hedonism.
History though has one big lesson, the very British sentiment of “Cheer up, it could be much worse”. Bad as this is, it is not the Black Death (which killed 45 – 50% of the population) or the Antonine Plague (which we think killed about 20-30%). The evidence of the last two hundred years is that we will get through this.
What we should do is take this experience as a warning sign and prepare to manage and mitigate the harm that an (inevitable) future pandemic will bring. We should also think of it as a stress test for our society, economy, and governments and look to learn which parts have worked well, and which have been found wanting.
Dr Stephen Davies is Head of Education at the Institute of Economic Affairs. Their report Going Viral: The History and Economics of Global Epidemics is out today