URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907002
ID : GPHN2020050500090

Date : 2020-05-04 00:43:00
Title : Influenza vaccination campaign began with extraordinary measures due to pandemic
Ariticle : 
Community centres and schools have since become vaccinated since Monday.
This is one of the extraordinary measures for the influenza vaccination campaign, taken due to the health emergency by the coronavirus pandemic.
These facilities were used instead of the Ebons, as determined by the Costa Rican Social Security Fund (CCSS) in order to avoid crowds in clinics and not expose people with risk factors and older adults to the virus.
In San Rafael Arriba de Desamparados, for example, the campaign was carried out in the communal center of the parish of San Rafael Arcángel.
The first older adults started arriving at 7:30 a.m.
Among them were José Antonio Bonilla and his wife, Mariángela Zúñiga, neighbors of the neighborhood La Guaria.
"I thought it was very good, very nice everything. We lasted about two minutes and the truth is that we came today not to let it go, one is very old already and this cannot be allowed to pass," the woman said, in approval of the measures taken not to expose them to covid-19, a disease that produces the new coronavirus.
Older adults are within the population at risk for covid-19 and also in case of influenza.
Physician José Morua, head of nursing in that health area, explained that the community center was chosen because it meets the necessary conditions recommended by the CCSS.
"This year, due to the pandemic, as part of the strategy to prevent contagion among people who come to vaccinate, it has been decided from the central level for the whole country, that vaccination be done in what we call the extramural strategy, which is to take out the vaccination of the Ebáis and carry it out in community halls and schools that are central and that meet the conditions to carry out the vaccination" Morua pointed out.
Other measures were also taken. For example, the distance between each waiting chair was much greater than those in the Ebons.
Health personnel carried a headge rack, as well as a mask and other personal protective equipment.
Nine weeks
In addition, the call this time will be more extensive, as it will last about nine weeks, when in previous years it took about four.
The reason is that the call is made according to the first letter of the surname. There are also schedules for each population that needs to apply the flu dose.
Older adults should attend from 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m., while children ages 3 to 7, as well as pregnant women and people with diabetes, heart disease, obesity and respiratory diseases, should do so from 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Health Minister Daniel Salas insisted that people like diabetics, pregnant women and older adults should only leave their home to get vaccinated and not be distracted by other stagecoaches.
According to the Costa Rican Social Security Fund (CCSS), 1.3 million doses will be applied, targeting the influenza risk population.
"This is critical because a patient of these can end up in an Intensive Care Unit ward and therefore competes for the same resources as a covid-19 patient," said the institution's executive chairman, Román Macaya.
People should check where the campaign is being run, as well as their date and time based on the first letter of their last name.