URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868691
ID : GPHN2020042900177

Date : 2020-04-29 22:46:00
Title : Those in danger get dibs on jab
Ariticle : 
INFLUENZA vaccines are few and far between in Cairns despite a flurry of advice telling Queenslanders to get their flu shots.
Those eligible for free vaccinations under the 2020 National Influenza Immunisation Program – people over 65, pregnant women, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and those with medical conditions predisposing them to severe influenza – are being moved to the top of a long waiting list.
This year, all flu vaccines offer protection against four strains of influenza, an A/Brisbane/02/2018 (H1N1) pdm09-like virus; an A/South Australia/34/2019 (H3N2)-like virus; a B/Washington/02/2019-like (B/Victoria lineage) virus; and a B/Phuket/3073/2013-like (B/Yamagata lineage) virus.
Chemist Warehouse advised Cairns customers not on the critical list to call back next week to check on availability while Alive Pharmacies also said there was a shortage of vaccine stock and staff were prioritising at-risk people.
Apple Tree Medical, which runs clinics on Draper St, Cairns and in Smithfield, also said there was a waitlist of at least a few weeks for a flu shot at their practices.
However, Cairns Doctors on Barr St and Omega Health at Pease St had the vaccine in stock for private and public patients.
A spokeswoman for Cairns Doctors on Barr St said appointments could only be made a few days ahead in case of low or no stock levels.
Tropical Public Health Services Cairns director Dr Richard Gair said the region had recorded 17 cases of influenza so far this year.
“At this early stage, it’s not possible to say what sort of a flu season we will have this year,’’ he said.
“Last year, we had 642 laboratory-confirmed cases of influenza, including 47 that required hospitalisation.
“However, notified cases are always only the tip of the iceberg. Many more cases occur who may not be so sick as to go to the doctor or may not be tested.
“Although the flu vaccines do not protect against COVID-19, they can reduce the severity and spread of influenza, which, if contracted, may make a person more susceptible to other respiratory illnesses like COVID-19.
“It is also important to get vaccinated to prevent possible influenza-related hospitalisations at a time when the pandemic may put pressure on the public health system.” Dr Gair said it generally took 10 to 14 days after vaccination to be fully protected.
The vaccines are becoming available across the region, but please call ahead to your local health facility or immunisation provider to ensure availability.
Australian Medical Association Queensland president Dr Dilip Dhupelia said despite the pandemic and the warnings, GP clinics had noticed a drastic reduction in the number of flu shots compared with the same time in 2019.
“People have been adhering to COVID-19 restrictions and staying at home, but these measures are set to start easing this week,” Dr Dhupelia said.
“As more people start resuming normal activities, we are likely to see a rise of influenza. At this time last year, there were 900 confirmed cases of flu in Queensland.
“If you get the flu, you are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, which would be a double whammy. Having both would make you extremely ill.
“We need people to get their flu shot now so we don’t come out of one crisis only to face another one.” Dr Dhupelia said it was understandable to be concerned about COVID-19 infection risks but GP clinics had strict infection control measures in place and were safe for patients to visit to have their flu shot.
editorial@cairnspost.com.au
facebook.com/TheCairnsPost
www.cairnspost.com.autwitter.com/TheCairnsPost