URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006905464
ID : GPHN2020050500027

Date : 2020-05-04 16:34:00
Title : Kazakhstan remains free of weapons of mass destruction
Ariticle : 
NUR-SULTAN, Kazakhstan – Throughout the world, for many years Kazakhstan has been known for its active participation in the global process of disarmament and non-proliferation of WMD. The country consolidated its position as the first nation in the history of mankind to voluntarily abandon the largest arsenal of nuclear weapons in early 1990s. The abandonment of nuclear weapons and the closure of one of the world’s largest nuclear test sites in Semipalatinsk region was unprecedented.
This is even more evident against the backdrop of attempts by several countries to obtain WMD. This independent decision by Kazakhstan is a powerful argument for the peaceful direction of country’s development. Kazakhstan is also known for its participation in all current WMD non-proliferation regimes. At the same time, media from time to time highlight conspiracy theories that Kazakh Biological Laboratory supposedly (built with the US support) produces biological weapons.
Recently, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan issued a thorough commentary on biosafety issues. The reason was the growth of various rumours and speculations regarding the work of biological laboratories operating in the country. The main message of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry was that the scientific biological developments have purely civil orientation, which is confirmed by the function of those laboratories under the wing of non-military agencies.
The main argument against the speculations about the creation of biological weapons at Kazakhstan’s biological laboratories is the country’s foreign policy benchmark established from the first days of sovereignty. Kazakhstan has chosen the course towards building a safe world free from the threat of nuclear and any types of weapons of mass destruction, including biological ones.
Thus, Kazakhstan is a responsible party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (CWC) and the Convention on the Prohibition of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons (BTWC). In 2019, Kazakhstan joined the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which will enter force after being ratified by 50 states. And in February 2020, Kazakhstan became a party to the Geneva Protocol on the prohibition of the use of asphyxiating, poisonous or other similar gases and bacteriological agents in war, which has been in force since 1925.
Kazakhstan not only fulfils all its obligations under all these international treaties, but also actively promotes the expansion and strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. With full openness, regular inspections are carried out by the IAEA and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Kazakhstan annually submits voluntary reports under the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BTWC). And this provides the republic with an impeccable reputation on a global level. Thus, following all non-proliferation regimes shows that Kazakhstan is a country free of all forms of weapons of mass destruction – nuclear, chemical, bacteriological, etcetera.
So, why is the largest country of Central Asia focuses on biosafety issues?
First, this is because a significant part of the territory of Kazakhstan, with its natural and climatic features, represents natural foci of pathogens especially dangerous for humans and animals, such as plague, cholera, tularemia, brucellosis and other infectious diseases.
Since the times of the USSR, there have been registered different foci of plague in Kazakhstan, which are located on the territory of 10 administrative regions out of 14. Today, in the territory of Kazakhstan there registered six types of natural foci of plague, within a total area of 1 million square kilometres. The country is part of the Central Asian desert focus, i.e. a large group of independently functioning natural foci that are united by a community of warm-blooded hosts and carriers of the plague pathogen.
Statistics show that from 1912 to 2010 in the territory of Kazakhstan there have been 123 epidemic foci of plague with 866 cases of human diseases recorded. Thanks to the biosafety measures taken by the Kazakh government, since 1994, no plague diseases have been recorded in Kazakhstan.
However, the problem of prevention of especially dangerous infections in Kazakhstan continues to be extremely urgent, because natural foci of infections are indestructible. This requires a continued development of production and research infrastructure for protection of public health.
Thus, Kazakhstan provides biological security in the entire Central Asian desert outbreak. The risk of spreading especially dangerous infections from the region is high for all bordering states, including Russia, China, Iran, Central Asia and the Caucasus. There are no borders for infection, and it was understood early in the days of the USSR.
So, back in December 1948, the Central Asian Anti-Plague Institute, the then methodology center of the anti-plague service throughout Central Asia, was founded based on the Almaty Anti-Plague Station. Now it is the National Scientific Center for Highly Infectious Diseases named after Magsut Aykimbaev in Almaty.
Over the years, a national school was created in Kazakhstan, carrying out unique research and development, training outstanding scientists and biologists. All work was carried out based on departmental laboratories of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the present stage, Kazakhstan continues to take measures to strengthen biological safety. In this regard, the construction of the Central Reference Laboratory (CRL) at the National Science Center has become an additional element in strengthening biological safety, national scientific and production potential.
The construction of the CRL was started in April 2010 and completed in September 2017. The presence of such high-tech facilities is a marker of development and research self-sufficiency for any country.
All developed countries have dozens of third-level biosafety laboratories. The highest level of bio-security is the fourth. Only a few countries have such laboratories (USA, Russia, China, France, Australia, Germany, India, Japan, Switzerland, and Great Britain).
The CRL was built in partnership with the United States under the agreement on the elimination of the infrastructure of weapons of mass destruction between Kazakhstan and the United States. Funding was provided through the Nunn-Lugar Programme by the United States Department of Defence, which made a significant contribution to strengthening the non-proliferation regime of weapons of mass destruction in Kazakhstan, Belarus, Russia, Ukraine and several other CIS countries.
The construction of the CRL was carried out by Kazakh specialists under the full control of local agencies while American experts provided only advisory assistance. The constructed laboratory belongs to Kazakhstan, is fully financed from the country’s budget, and is managed by civil ministries.
In Kazakhstan, unlike in several countries, all laboratories are run by civil ministries (Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Healthcare, Ministry of Agriculture). In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Russian Federation, China, the United States, and other countries, some biosafety facilities are supervised and financed by the ministries of defense.
It is worth noting that to ensure the transparency CRL, the laboratory was repeatedly visited by relevant specialists from various countries. In October 2018, the CRL held an international workshop on the universalisation and implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological and Toxin Weapons (BTWC). The members of diplomatic corps, as well as experts from Russia separately visited CRL. There has never been a substantiated criticism that the work of the CRL does not comply with Kazakhstan’s obligations.
The global coronavirus pandemic shows that infectious diseases do not have borders. Kazakhstan, understanding the transboundary nature of risks and threats to biological safety, remains open to international cooperation on the basis of CRL. Moreover, the government of Kazakhstan has repeatedly stated that it is interested in the joint construction of laboratories in other regions of the country, closer to the natural foci of infections.
In the context of growing globalisation, when the threat that has arisen in thousands of kilometres spreads very quickly around the world in a matter of days, such interaction is even more needed.
Since the beginning of the XXI century, each country has repeatedly faced epidemics of various diseases. The first epidemic that humanity faced at the beginning of the XXI century was the spread of SARS. Avian influenza, or H5N1, has been a very insidious disease in the last 20 years. Outbreaks that are almost turning into an epidemic were registered in 2003, 2005 and 2012. This type of flu is dangerous, as it causes serious complications.
Swine flu, with a name that became popular, is officially called influenza A subtype H1N1 by the WHO. The first cases in 2009 were registered in Mexico. In North America, the virus quickly reached the United States and Canada, and from there spread to 200 countries. Then WHO announced that the world has a pandemic of influenza at its most dangerous level.
Hemorrhagic fever caused by the Ebola virus shook the world in 2014. Countries of Africa had previously encountered the disease, but in 2014 the virus spread to other continents. WHO, evaluating its scale, called the Ebola a global threat. In 2016, Zika began spreading in Latin America. These epidemics prove the need for adequate scientific infrastructure for research and development.
Today, CRL is especially in demand. The laboratory has developed national test systems for the detection of COVID-19. Thus, Kazakhstan ceased to depend on external supply of the tests and established its own production. The development of tests is the result of an instruction by the President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, who in April 2020 declared that “the measures should be taken to use the available capacities to produce the immunobiological agents. When the vaccine is available, Kazakhstan should not depend on its supply from abroad.” Now the healthcare system of Kazakhstan has increased its potential for resistance to the COVID-19 epidemic.
Overall, the creation of CRL strengthened the existing potential of Kazakhstan, increasing both the safety of scientific research and its research and practice component. Kazakhstan deliberately and responsibly ensures the biological safety of all the bordering states – Russia, China, Iran, the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus from highly dangerous infections, the epidemics of which, without constant efforts, can quickly become the beginning of major epidemics without borders.