URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868798
ID : GPHN2020042900088

Date : 2020-04-28 22:57:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Influenza B Virus; Shenzhen Nanshan People's Hospital Researchers Add New Study Findings to Research in Influenza B Virus [Two Cases of Influenza B Virus-Related Fatal Fulminant Pneumonia Complicated With Staphylococcus aureus Infection in …
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Current study results on influenza B virus have been published. According to news reporting originating from Shenzhen, People's Republic of China, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Two rare cases of Chinese female patients with influenza B virus infection complicated with both fulminant pneumonia and septicemia caused by Panton-Valentine leukocidin(PVL) positive methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MASS) were reported for the first time in China through next-generation sequencing (NGS)."
Funders for this research include National Natural Science Foundation of China; Science, Technology and Innovation Commission of Shenzhen Municipality.
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from Shenzhen Nanshan People's Hospital: "An increasing body of evidence indicates that co-infection with influenza B virus and bacterial pneumonia is often fatal. Rapid and precise identification of the co-infection bacteria can guide the selection of treatment for patients with influenza virus infection in the clinical setting. In this study, next-generation sequencing (NGS) was applied for the rapid diagnosis of these two cases. Despite the unfavorable survival outcome of these patients, the application of next-generation sequencing showed promise as a diagnostic tool for the rapid diagnosis of unknown pathogens in patients with bacterial pneumonia and sepsis."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "This method can guide the administration of medications in such patients."
For more information on this research see: Two Cases of Influenza B Virus-Related Fatal Fulminant Pneumonia Complicated With Staphylococcus aureus Infection in China Diagnosed Using Next-Generation Sequencing (2018). Frontiers in Public Health, 2020,8. (Frontiers in Public Health - http://journal.frontiersin.org/journal/public-health). The publisher for Frontiers in Public Health is Frontiers Media S.A.
A free version of this journal article is available at https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2020.00121.
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting Bing Bai, Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Endogenous Infection, Department of Infectious Diseases, Shenzhen Nanshan People's Hospital and the 6th Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University Health Science Center, Shenzhen, People's Republic of China. Additional authors for this research include Hongyan Wang, Meng Li, Xiaoyu Ma, Jinxin Zheng, Qiwen Deng, Zhijian Yu.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC