URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900714
ID : GPHN2020050400107

Date : 2020-05-03 23:40:00
Title : Doctors enter Talamanca by helicopter to attend asthma, parasites and colds in indigenous population
Ariticle : 
Skin lesions, uterine bleeding, flu, parasites and asthma were some of the ills encountered by the emergency response teams of the Costa Rican Social Security Fund (CCSS) in the indigenous territory of Alto Telire, in Talamanca, the week before, when they visited the area to care for their inhabitants.
During this visit, doctors treated 726 indigenous people, nine of whom received prenatal monitoring. In addition, 23 people required different procedures, including the extraction of "foreign insect bodies" in minors.
Others were cared for by burns, lumbalgias and otitis; and one had to be transferred to Tony Facio Hospital in Lemon because of a burn.
In total, four CCSS emergency response teams were in communities such as Bajo Bley, Piedra Meza, Beibata and Botubata from Wednesday, April 29 and Friday, May 1. Each of these teams consisted of two doctors and one pharmaceutical.
Due to the complicated entry to that area, located in the Lemon Mountains, CCSS Executive Chairman Román Macaya commented that specialists arrived via helicopter.
The hierarch explained that doing this work involved the coordination of the service network of the Huetar Atlantic region, as staff worked in different hospitals and health areas.
Normally, these tours take about a week; however, staff were reduced due to the pandemic.
"Prevention measures such as reducing time to stay and the number of people were taken through the emergence of covid-19, and all staff went through a medical assessment to ensure their health status," Macaya said.
Emergency response teams are made up of personnel with mountain insertion preparation and training and each carry their own survival equipment.
The action was part of the humanitarian assistance operation involving several institutions such as the National Commission for Risk Prevention and Emergency Care (CNE), the Vice-Ministry of the Presidency, the Air Surveillance Service, the National Commission on Indigenous Affairs (CONAI), the Indigenous Community Committees, the Red Cross and the Fire Department.
During this care tour, 4,877 drug vouchers were dispatched.