URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006893582
ID : GPHN2020050200184

Date : 2020-05-02 12:45:00
Title : Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Registers Clinical Trial to Study Prevalence Of Toxoplasma Gondii, A Parasitic Infection In Healthy Voluntary Blood Donors Using A Serological Test Amongst People From South-West Coastal Karnataka
Ariticle : 
May 2 -- Kasturba Medical College, Manipal has registered a clinical trial with the Clinical Trial Registry - India (CTRI) to study prevalence of toxoplasma gondii, a parasitic infection in healthy voluntary blood donors using a serological test amongst people from south-west coastal Karnataka. The CTRI No. of the clinical trial is CTRI/2020/04/024909.
The principal investigator of the clinical trial is Nayana S.
Healthy Human Volunteers with Prevalence of Toxoplasmosis in Blood donors have been studied in the clinical trial.
The type of clinical trial is observational.
The brief summary of the trial is:
Toxoplasmosis is a protozoan parasitic disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii (T.gondii). Humans and other warm blooded animals are its host and the disease has world-wide distribution. Infection is transmitted to humans by their initimate association with domestic pets especially cats. Commonly infection occurs due to ingestion of food and water contaminated with oocysts shed by cats or by eating raw or under-cooked meat containing tissue cysts .Yet another important means by which humans acquire infection is by blood transfusion and organ transplantation .Hence, testing for Toxoplasma antibodies in blood of healthy donors is a crucial step. In India among the healthy voluntary blood donors amount of antibodies against Toxoplasma is more significant than all the other five mandatory tests i.e., antibodies to HIV1, HIV2, HBsAg, HCV, RPR for syphilis and malarial parasite. Therefore, screening for antibodies against Toxoplasma should also be included as pre-transfusion blood testing.
This study is done to check seroprevalence of antibodies against Toxoplasma gondii in healthy voluntary blood donors in coastal Karnataka region. Such prevalence studies conveys the infection rate at a particular region which indirectly helps the patient from not getting infected during blood transfusion or organ transplantation.
The full-text of the clinical trial can be found at (http://ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials/pmaindet2.php?trialid=42817&EncHid=&userName=2020)
Source: Clinical Trials Registry - India