URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006909035
ID : GPHN2020050500133

Date : 2020-05-01 04:02:00
Title : Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria; Researchers at National Institute for Communicable Diseases Release New Data on Malaria (High levels of imported asymptomatic malaria but limited local transmission in KwaZulu-Natal, a South African malaria-endemic prov…
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- Research findings on Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria are discussed in a new report. According to news reporting originating from Gauteng, South Africa, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "KwaZulu-Natal, one of South Africa's three malaria endemic provinces, is nearing malaria elimination, reporting fewer than 100 locally-acquired cases annually since 2010. Despite sustained implementation of essential interventions, including annual indoor residual spraying, prompt case detection using malaria rapid diagnostics tests and treatment with effective artemisinin-based combination therapy, low-level focal transmission persists in the province."
Funders for this research include Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from National Institute for Communicable Diseases, "This malaria prevalence and entomological survey was therefore undertaken to identify the drivers of this residual transmission. Malaria prevalence as well as malaria knowledge, attitudes and practices among community members and mobile migrant populations within uMkhanyakude district, KwaZulu-Natal were assessed during a community-based malaria prevalence survey. All consenting participants were tested for malaria by both conventional and highly-sensitive falciparum-specific rapid diagnostic tests. Finger-prick filter-paper blood spots were also collected from all participants for downstream parasite genotyping analysis. Entomological investigations were conducted around the surveyed households, with potential breeding sites geolocated and larvae collected for species identification and insecticide susceptibility testing. A random selection of households were assessed for indoor residual spray quality by cone bioassay. A low malaria prevalence was confirmed in the study area, with only 2% (67/2979) of the participants found to be malaria positive by both conventional and highly-sensitive falciparum-specific rapid diagnostic tests. Malaria prevalence however differed markedly between the border market and community (p <0001), with the majority of the detected malaria carriers (65/67) identified as asymptomatic Mozambican nationals transiting through the informal border market from Mozambique to economic hubs within South Africa. Genomic analysis of the malaria isolates revealed a high degree of heterozygosity and limited genetic relatedness between the isolates supporting the hypothesis of limited local malaria transmission within the province. New potential vector breeding sites, potential vector populations with reduced insecticide susceptibility and areas with sub-optimal vector intervention coverage were identified during the entomological investigations."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "If KwaZulu-Natal is to successfully halt local malaria transmission and prevent the re-introduction of malaria, greater efforts need to be placed on detecting and treating malaria carriers at both formal and informal border crossings with transmission blocking anti-malarials, while ensuring optimal coverage of vector control interventions is achieved."
For more information on this research see: High levels of imported asymptomatic malaria but limited local transmission in KwaZulu-Natal, a South African malaria-endemic province nearing malaria elimination. Malaria Journal, 2020;19(1):152. Malaria Journal can be contacted at: Biomed Central LTD, Middlesex House, 34-42 Cleveland St, London W1T 4LB, England. (BioMed Central - www.biomedcentral.com/; Malaria Journal - www.malariajournal.com)
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting J. Raman, Centre for Emerging Zoonotic and Parasitic Diseases, National Institute for Communicable Diseases, Division of the National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa. Additional authors for this research include L. Gast, R. Balawanth, S. Tessema, B. Brooke, R. Maharaj, G. Munhenga, P. Tshikae, V. Lakan, T. Mwamba, H. Makowa, L. Sangweni, M. Mkhabela, N. Zondo, E. Mohulatsi, Z. Nyawo, S. Ngxongo, S. Msimang and N Dagata.
Publisher contact information for the Malaria Journal is: Biomed Central LTD, Middlesex House, 34-42 Cleveland St, London W1T 4LB, England.
Keywords for this news article include: Gauteng, Malaria, Genetics, South Africa, Health and Medicine, Protozoan Infections, Mosquito Borne Diseases, Mosquito-Borne Diseases.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC