URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006873097
ID : GPHN2020042900241

Date : 2020-04-29 11:31:00
Title : The pandemic that never came
Ariticle : 
In the archives of the Federal Ministry of Health, a comprehensive and comprehensive document called the National Plan for the Preparation and Response to a Influenza Pandemic stands out, since in the wake of the health crisis of 2009 that severely affected Mexico, it was decided to develop an entire project to deal with this disease.
It was the fearsome Influenza A (H1N1) or a mutation of it, the pandemic that Mexico expected and for which a broad protocol was developed that involved the entire structure of the sector of the governing hand of the World Health Organization.
The international agency warned at the time after the emergence of avian influenza (H5N1), that the emergence of a new influenza virus that would lead to a global epidemic with devastating effects, as was eventually the case with H1N1, was imminent. Although it did not mention any name, the Ministry of Health document estimated that a type of influenza virus never before seen, that was more resistant and virulent, could appear, with the ability to infect millions of people in all age groups into a pandemic.
Specifically, the influenza prevention project, has been in China since 2013, the transmission of birds to humans of the H7N9 virus. Three conditions indicated for a pandemic: first, that it be a new subtype of influenza virus; second, it must infect humans and cause serious and third disease, which must be transmitted easily and sustainably among humans.
It recounted the pandemics that have affected humanity since 1918 with the Spanish influenza that caused the deaths of between 40 and 100 million people; until the 2009-2010 pandemic that generated 18 thousand 450 dead, 244 in Mexico and 75 in Jalisco.
The deployment of the Health Sector in Mexico through a Health Alert System that states that in the event of a pandemic (by influenza), it should be considered to be declared quarantine; non-essential economic activities are suspended and public and concessional transport is restricted; remains in operation emergency services, civil protection, safety and health; activities in critical sectors such as light, water, food and medicine, among others, are maintained.
The document prepared by the previous team of the Undersecretariat for Health Prevention and Promotion (in the government of Enrique Peña Nieto), mentioned the risks of the pandemic, the phase of the pandemic, the alerting, appointment of a spokesman, pandemic phases, objectives of the World Health Organization, lines of action, transition between phases, preparation actions, components of action , coordination, medical care (including laboratory protocols, samples, diagnostics, etc.), epidemiological surveillance (sentinel system), communication, mitigation actions and legal framework, among other points.
The plan covers the post-pandemic phase, which includes reactivation of activities in accordance with risk assessments. The 212-quarter document of the Ministry of Health was only wrong with forecasts for a new influenza pandemic that never arrived. But the planning, organization and guidelines would now be appreciated where anarchy and each state and even some town halls reign, seem to have their own protocols for measuring, monitoring and combat phases against covid-19. (I invite you to read, listen to, and see in www.paraleloveinte.com)
martinezmcarlos@hotmail.com