URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868731
ID : GPHN2020042900164

Date : 2020-04-28 22:47:00
Title : Tropical Research; New Findings from University of Sargodha Describe Advances in Tropical Research [Genetic variability and diversity of Echinococcus granulosus sensu lato in human isolates of Pakistan based on cox1 mt-DNA sequences (366bp)]
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Data detailed on Tropical Research have been presented. According to news reporting originating from Sargodha, Pakistan, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a cyclo-zoonotic disease endemic to Pakistan, however, phylogeography and etiology of Echinococcus granulosus from human host has remained unexplored so far. The current study was carried out to estimate population structure and appraise the genetic variability of E. granulosus in two major provinces of Pakistan, Sindh and Punjab. 94 isolates were subjected to sequence analysis from histopathologically confirmed CE patients using a fragment of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 gene (cox1; 366bp)."
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from the University of Sargodha, "Three genotypes of E. granulosus sensu lato, G1 (57.44%), G3 (41.48%) and G6 (1.06%), were inferred to exist in human patients. Molecular diversity indices for E. granulosus sensu stricto manifested the presence of 14 haplotypes among the regional populations forming distinct clades with sheep (G1) and buffalo (G3) strains. The haplotype network displayed a double clustered star like feature with PK-H1c (37.63%) and PK-H9c (32.25%) as most dominant haplotypes displaying low genetic differentiation between the two geographic regions. Neutrality indices (Tajima's D and Fu's Fs) were negative for all populations indicating population expansion across Pakistan. The sympatric presence of G1 and G3 genotypes among humans in endemic focus of Pakistan confirms the zoonotic potential of E. granulosus s.s. with special emphasis on the G3 strain which emerged as a dominant cause of CE in humans compared to other global studies where only G1 is linked to the majority of CE cases."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Data from this study will prove to be a keystone for devising robust regional control strategies for human hydatidosis and investigating potential pathogenicity of E. granulosus s.l. haplotypes and their clinical manifestations in Pakistan."
For more information on this research see: Genetic variability and diversity of Echinococcus granulosus sensu lato in human isolates of Pakistan based on cox1 mt-DNA sequences (366bp). Acta Tropica, 2020;():105470. Acta Tropica can be contacted at: Elsevier Science BV, PO Box 211, 1000 AE Amsterdam, Netherlands. (Elsevier - www.elsevier.com; Acta Tropica - www.journals.elsevier.com/acta-tropica/)
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting H. Muqaddas, Dept. of Zoology, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, Pakistan. Additional authors for this research include N. Mehmood and M. Arshad.
Publisher contact information for the journal Acta Tropica is: Elsevier Science BV, PO Box 211, 1000 AE Amsterdam, Netherlands.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, Sargodha, Pakistan, Genetics, Tropical Research.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC