URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868720
ID : GPHN2020042900167

Date : 2020-04-28 22:47:00
Title : Gram-Positive Bacteria - Staphylococcus aureus; New Findings on Staphylococcus aureus from Virtual University of Pakistan Summarized (Molecular Analysis of Staphylococcus Aureus Isolated From Infected Dairy Goats)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Current study results on Gram-Positive Bacteria - Staphylococcus aureus have been published. According to news reporting from Lahore, Pakistan, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of mastitis in dairy goats and is globally recognized as a significant mastitis-causing pathogen in dairy animals. Previous studies have established it as the causative agent of various human disorders, including food poisoning and Staphylococcal enterotoxins."
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from the Virtual University of Pakistan, "Furthermore, poor sanitary conditions suit infection by this bacterium. This study determined the occurrence of S. aureus in infected dairy goats by molecular analysis. A hundred raw milk samples were collected from two infected dairy goat breeds (Beetal = 71; Teddy = 29) and cultured on blood agar media. The strain identified as S. aureus by morphological method (Gram staining), biochemical tests (catalase and coagulase) and further identified through molecular method using the 16SrRNA gene. Overall, 58 (Beetal = 45; Teddy = 13) out of 100 raw milk samples (58%) were found to be positive for S. aureus. Further, ten samples of fresh milk positive for other microbial species including S. hominis, S. capitis and S. lentus were isolated. The 16SrRNA gene was sequenced of fifteen S. aureus isolates representing various geographical regions."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Phylogenetic analysis was performed based on the 16SrRNA gene. S. aureus was more prevalent in the raw milk samples of the infected goats and acted as an etiologic agent of mastitis in the dairy goats. Hence, more measures that are hygienic should be implemented to improve milk quality and to prevent S. aureus contamination."
For more information on this research see: Molecular Analysis of Staphylococcus Aureus Isolated From Infected Dairy Goats. THAI JOURNAL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE, 2019;49(4):361-367. THAI JOURNAL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE can be contacted at: Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Veterinary Sci, Henri Dunant Rd, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand.
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting M.E. Babar, Virtual University of Pakistan, Lahore, Pakistan. Additional authors for this research include M.A. Qazi, S. Sherzada, A. Wajid, R. Bibi, A. Maqbool, A. Ali, T. Hussain, S. Iqbal, S.A. Khan and U. Atique.
Keywords for this news article include: Lahore, Pakistan, Asia, Bacillales, Endospore-Forming Bacteria, Genetics, Gram-Positive Bacteria, Gram-Positive Cocci, Gram-Positive Endospore-Forming Rods, Staphylococcaceae, Staphylococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, Virtual University of Pakistan.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC