URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006883975
ID : GPHN2020050100155

Date : 2020-04-30 22:32:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Influenza A Virus; Research Results from Shiga University of Medical Science Update Understanding of Influenza A Virus (Efficacy of neuraminidase inhibitors against H5N6 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus in a non-human primate model)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 30 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Blood Weekly -- Investigators publish new report on RNA Viruses - Influenza A Virus. According to news reporting out of Otsu, Japan, by NewsRx editors, research stated, "Attention has been paid to H5N6 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus (HPAIV) because of its heavy burden on the poultry industry and human mortality. Since an influenza A virus carrying N6 neuraminidase (NA) has never spread in humans, the potential for H5N6 HPAIV to cause disease in humans and the efficacy of antiviral drugs against the virus need to be urgently assessed."
Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research from the Shiga University of Medical Science, "We used non-human primates to elucidate the pathogenesis of H5N6 HPAIV as well as to determine the efficacy of antiviral drugs against the virus. H5N6 HPAIV infection led to high fever in cynomolgus macaques. The lung injury caused by the virus was severe with diffuse alveolar damage and neutrophil infiltration. In addition, an increase in IFN-a showed an inverse correlation with virus titers during the infection process. Oseltamivir was effective for reducing H5N6 HPAIV propagation, and continuous treatment with peramivir reduced virus propagation and severity of symptoms in the early stage."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "This study also showed the pathologically severe lung injury states in the cynomolgus macaques infected with H5N6 HPAIV, even in those that received early antiviral drug treatments, indicating the need for close monitoring and the need for further studies on the virus pathogenicity and new antiviral therapies."
For more information on this research see: Efficacy of neuraminidase inhibitors against H5N6 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus in a non-human primate model. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 2020;():. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy can be contacted at: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA. (American Society for Microbiology - www.asm.org; Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy - aac.asm.org)
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting S. Suzuki, Division of Pathogenesis and Disease Regulation, Dept. of Pathology, Shiga University of Medical Science, Otsu 520-2192, Japan. Additional authors for this research include C.T. Nguyen, Y. Itoh, H. Ishigaki, M. Nakayama, K. Hayashi, K. Matsuno, M. Okamatsu, Y. Sakoda, H. Kida and K. Ogasawara.
Publisher contact information for the journal Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy is: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Otsu, Asia, Japan, Viral, Virology, RNA Viruses, Neuraminidase, Influenza A Virus, Influenza in Birds, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Risk and Prevention, Glycoside Hydrolases, RNA Virus Infections, Enzymes and Coenzymes, Avian Influenza (Bird Flu), Orthomyxoviridae Infections, Bird Diseases and Conditions.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC