URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868685
ID : GPHN2020042900179

Date : 2020-04-28 22:50:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Respiratory Syncytial Viruses; Recent Studies from St Paul's Hospital Add New Data to Respiratory Syncytial Viruses (Relevance of reviewing endpoint analysis for negative results on the Xpert Xpress Flu/RSV)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Investigators discuss new findings in RNA Viruses - Respiratory Syncytial Viruses. According to news reporting from Vancouver, Canada, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "After the implementation of the Xpert Xpress Flu/respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) assay for rapid respiratory molecular testing, we investigated the significance of reported endpoint values for influenza A, influenza B, and RSV. This study prospectively analyzed nasopharyngeal swabs submitted to our virology laboratory in the 2018/19 influenza season."
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from St Paul's Hospital, "Initial testing was performed on the Xpress Flu/RSV assay. Samples were further tested on a laboratory-developed multiplex polymerase chain reaction (laboratory-developed multiplex respiratory test [LDT]) if the sample was reported as negative by the Xpress Flu/RSV but had an elevated endpoint value 5 for any respiratory virus target. There were 1040 negative results on the Xpress Flu/RSV; thirty-one had at least one endpoint value 5 [influenza A (25), influenza B (1), RSV (2), influenza A/RSV (1), and influenza A/B/RSV (2)]. Five samples (5/31, 16.1%) were positive on the LDT for influenza A or RSV. In contrast, the positivity rate on the LDT for negative Xpress Flu/RSV samples with endpoint values less than 5 was 0.35% (p <.0001). A threshold for endpoint values could not reliably be established to differentiate a potential influenza A positive result from a negative result on the LDT."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Routine evaluation ofendpoint values should be a consideration for laboratories implementing Xpress Flu/RSV, in addition to supplementary respiratory virus testing for clinically relevant situations."
For more information on this research see: Relevance of reviewing endpoint analysis for negative results on the Xpert Xpress Flu/RSV. Journal of Medical Virology, 2020;():. Journal of Medical Virology can be contacted at: Wiley-Liss, Div John Wiley & Sons Inc, 111 River St, Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA. (Wiley-Blackwell - www.wiley.com/; Journal of Medical Virology - onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1096-9071)
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting G. Ritchie, Division of Medical Microbiology and Virology, St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Additional authors for this research include N. Matic, T. Lawson, L. Karakas, M.G. Romney and C.F Lowe.
Publisher contact information for the Journal of Medical Virology is: Wiley-Liss, Div John Wiley & Sons Inc, 111 River St, Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Viral, Canada, Virology, Vancouver, Influenza, RNA Viruses, Risk and Prevention, North and Central America, Respiratory Syncytial Viruses.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC