URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912275
ID : GPHN2020050600045

Date : 2020-05-05 14:09:00
Title : Anti-apoptotic clone 11 derived peptides induce in vitro death of CD4+ T cells susceptible to HIV-1 infection
Ariticle : 
Virus-Cell Interactions
Anti-apoptotic clone 11 derived peptides induce in vitro death of CD4+ T cells susceptible to HIV-1 infection
Anastassia Mikhailova, José Carlos Valle-Casuso, Annie David, Valérie Monceaux, Stevenn Volant, Caroline Passaes, Amal Elfidha, Michaela Müller-Trutwin, Jean-Luc Poyet, Asier Sáez-Cirión
Anastassia Mikhailova
1Institut Pasteur, Unité HIV Inflammation et Persistance, Paris, France
4Université Paris Diderot, Université de Paris, Paris, France
1Institut Pasteur, Unité HIV Inflammation et Persistance, Paris, France
5Université Paris Descartes, Université de Paris, Paris, France
PDF
ABSTRACT
HIV-1 successfully establishes long-term infection in its target cells despite viral cytotoxic effects. We have recently shown that cell metabolism is an important factor driving CD4+ T-cell susceptibility to HIV-1 and the survival of infected cells. We show here that expression of anti-apoptotic clone 11 (AAC-11), an anti-apoptotic factor upregulated in many cancers, increased with progressive CD4+ T cell memory differentiation in association with the expression of cell cycle, activation and metabolism genes and correlated with susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. Synthetic peptides based on the LZ domain sequence of AAC-11, responsible for its interaction with molecular partners, were previously shown to be cytotoxic to cancer cells. Here we observed that these peptides also blocked HIV-1 infection by inducing cell death of HIV-1 susceptible primary CD4+ T-cells across all T-cell subsets. The peptides targeted metabolically active cells and had the greatest effect on effector and transitional CD4+ T cell memory subsets. Our results suggest that AAC-11 survival pathway is potentially involved in the survival of HIV-1 infectable cells and provide a proof of principle that some cellular characteristics can be targeted to eliminate the cells offering the best conditions to sustain HIV-1 replication.
IMPORTANCE Although antiretroviral treatment efficiently blocks HIV multiplication, it cannot eliminate the cells already carrying integrated proviruses. In the search for a HIV cure the identification of new potential targets to selectively eliminate infected cells is of the outmost importance. We show here that peptides derived from the anti-apoptotic clone 11 (AAC-11), which expression levels correlated with susceptibility to HIV-1 infection of CD4+ T-cells, induced cytotoxicity in CD4+ T-cells showing the highest levels of activation and metabolic activity, conditions known to favor HIV-1 infection. Accordingly, CD4+ T-cells that survived the cytotoxic action of the AAC-11 peptides were resistant to HIV-1 replication. Our results identify a new potential molecular pathway to target HIV-1 infection.
Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.