URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868301
ID : GPHN2020042900075

Date : 2020-04-28 22:20:00
Title : Animal Diseases and Conditions - Avian Influenza (Bird Flu); New Findings from Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention in the Area of Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) Reported [A fatal paediatric case infected with reassortant avian influe…
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Investigators publish new report on Animal Diseases and Conditions - Avian Influenza (Bird Flu). According to news reporting originating in Nanjing, People's Republic of China, by VerticalNews journalists, research stated, "Avian influenza A(H5N6) keeps evolving, causing outbreaks in birds and sporadic infections in human. Here, we report a fatal paediatric infection caused by a novel reassortant H5N6 virus."
The news reporters obtained a quote from the research from Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, "The patient was an obese 9-year-old girl. She initiated with fever and cough, then developed pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and respiratory failure. Lower respiratory tract aspirates and anal swabs were serially taken till the patient's death. Viral isolation, genome sequencing and phylogenetic analysis were conducted. A novel reassortant H5N6 virus was isolated from the patient. Except the PA gene, all other 7 genes of the virus belonged to H5N6 genotype A (S4-like virus). The PA gene was probably obtained from Eurasian waterfowl influenza viruses. The H5N6 virus was consistently detected from the patient's respiratory samples till the 17th day after symptom onset, but not from anal swabs or urine sample by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Significantly elevated (32-fold) serum antibodies to H5N6 virus were observed during the patient's course of disease."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Aside from the identified novel reassortant H5N6 viral strain, obesity, delayed confirmation of aetiology and specific antiviral treatment, and prolonged virus shedding could have contributed to the poor clinical outcome."
For more information on this research see: A fatal paediatric case infected with reassortant avian influenza A(H5N6) virus in Eastern China. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases, 2020;():. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases can be contacted at: Blackwell Publishing Inc, 350 Main St, Malden, MA 02148, USA. (Wiley-Blackwell - www.wiley.com/; Transboundary and Emerging Diseases - onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1865-1682)
Our news correspondents report that additional information may be obtained by contacting X. Huo, Section of Epidemiology, Dept. of Acute Infectious Diseases, Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, People's Republic of China. Additional authors for this research include L.L. Chen, X. Qi, C. Liu, H. Huang, H. Yu, Z. Dong, F. Deng, J. Peng, H. Hang, S. Wang, H. Fan, Y. Pang and C. Bao.
The publisher of the journal Transboundary and Emerging Diseases can be contacted at: Blackwell Publishing Inc, 350 Main St, Malden, MA 02148, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Nanjing, Viruses, Virology, Pediatrics, Influenza in Birds, Health and Medicine, RNA Virus Infections, People's Republic of China, Avian Influenza (Bird Flu), Orthomyxoviridae Infections, Bird Diseases and Conditions, Avian Diseases and Conditions, Animal Diseases and Conditions, Poultry Diseases and Conditions.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC