URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006867867
ID : GPHN2020042900060

Date : 2020-04-28 19:34:00
Title : County was ground zero for swine flu outbreak
Ariticle : 
In April 2009, a 10-year-old boy in San Diego tested positive for swine flu, caused by the H1N1 influenza virus - the first known case in the United States, and the world braced for a pandemic outbreak.
Although not as lethal as first feared, the effect of swine flu was significant. From 2009-2010 the CDC estimated there were 60.8 million cases and about 12,000 deaths in the United States due to the H1N1 virus. Globally, an estimated 151,000 to 575,000 people died from swine flu in the first year of the pandemic, according to the CDC. Local officials said it contributed to the deaths of 58 people in San Diego County.
Since then, the virus has circulated seasonally in the U.S. causing additional illnesses, hospitalizations, and deaths.
From The San Diego Union-Tribune, Tuesday, April 28, 2009:
WHO RAISES ALERT LEVEL
FOR SWINE FLU OUTBREAK
Health officials shut down school in Mira Mesa
By Mike Lee
The novel strain of swine flu that has gripped the globe not only infected more people from San Diego to Spain yesterday, but also started exacting an economic toll as stock markets fell and travelers reconsidered trips to Mexico and the United States.
Public health officials in San Diego County shut down Christ the Cornerstone Academy, a private Lutheran school in Mira Mesa, to limit the spread of the disease after a 7-year-old student contracted it. At least three teachers also may be infected at the school, the first in the region to be shuttered in the outbreak.
"The situation is moving very rapidly ... It changes hourly," said Dr. Wilma Wooten, the county's public health officer.
The World Health Organization raised its pandemic alert level from phase 3 to phase 4 yesterday afternoon, indicating a significantly increased risk of a global swine-flu infection that has possibly infected about 2,080 people in eight countries.
The European Union's health commissioner yesterday urged Europeans to postpone nonessential travel to Mexico and the United States. Later in the day, the U.S. government recommended that Americans avoid nonessential travel to Mexico.
Both moves were likely to damage the interdependent economies of San Diego County and Baja California. The advisories and school closures in Mexico could increase absenteeism for factories, hotels, restaurants and hospitals on both sides of the border; further devastate Tijuana's tourism industry; and lead to lost productivity because of longer lines at border crossings.
"Many businesses have had to close their doors. They couldn't cover their operating costs," said Antonio Tapia Hernandez, director of the Tijuana Chamber of Commerce. "An important part of their clientele was visitors from California or people who came to California and wanted to know Mexico through Tijuana. Some still visit, but there aren't enough."
Economic turmoil spread worldwide yesterday as investors sold stocks of airlines, meat processors and other companies that could be harmed by the swine flu. On the upside, some drug makers and medical supply firms enjoyed a surge on speculation that sales of anti-flu products will boom.
Historical photos and articles from
The San Diego Union-Tribune archives Are compiled by Merrie Monteagudo.
Search the U-T historic archives
at NewsLibrary.com/sites/sdub