URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868695
ID : GPHN2020042900175

Date : 2020-04-28 22:42:00
Title : Gram-Positive Bacteria - Mycobacteria; Findings from Department of Microbiology in Mycobacteria Reported (Mycobacterium Caprae - the First Case of the Human Infection In Poland)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Investigators discuss new findings in Gram-Positive Bacteria - Mycobacteria. According to news reporting from Warsaw, Poland, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "The strain of tuberculous mycobacteria called Mycobacterium caprae infects many wild and domestic animals; however, because of its zoonotic potential and possibility of transmission between animals and humans, it poses a serious threat to public health. Due to diagnostic limitations regarding identification of MTB strains available data regarding the incidence of M. caprae, human infection does not reflect the actual size of the problem."
Financial supporters for this research include Jakub Hr. Potocki Foundation, Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, National Veterinary Research Institute in Pulawy.
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from the Department of Microbiology, "Despite the fact that the possible routes of tuberculosis transmission are known, the epidemiological map of this zoonosis remains underestimated. The progress in diagnostic techniques, application of advanced methods of mycobacterium genome differentiation and cooperation between scientists in the field of veterinary medicine and microbiology, have a profound meaning for understanding the phenomenon of bovine tuberculosis and its supervise its incidence."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "This is the first bacteriologically confirmed case of human infection of M. caprae in Poland."
For more information on this research see: Mycobacterium Caprae - the First Case of the Human Infection In Poland. Annals of Agricultural and Environmental Medicine, 2020;27(1):151-153. Annals of Agricultural and Environmental Medicine can be contacted at: Inst Agricultural Medicine, Jaczewskiego 2, PO Box 185, 20-950 Lublin, Poland.
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting M. Kozinska, Natl Tb & Lung Dis Res Inst Ntld, Dept. of Microbiology, Warsaw, Poland. Additional authors for this research include E. Augustynowicz-Kopec and M. Krajewska-Wedzina.
Keywords for this news article include: Warsaw, Poland, Europe, Actinomycetales, Epidemiology, Gram-Positive Asporogenous Rods, Gram-Positive Bacteria, Gram-Positive Rods, Mycobacteria, Mycobacteriaceae, Mycobacterium, Department of Microbiology.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC