URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868777
ID : GPHN2020042900094

Date : 2020-04-28 22:42:00
Title : Animal Diseases and Conditions - Classical Swine Fever; Findings on Classical Swine Fever Reported by S. Munoz-Gonzalez et al (Foetal Immune Response Activation and High Replication Rate during Generation of Classical Swine Fever Congenital Infection)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Investigators discuss new findings in Animal Diseases and Conditions - Classical Swine Fever. According to news originating from Barcelona, Spain, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) induces trans-placental transmission and congenital viral persistence; however, the available information is not updated. Three groups of sows were infected at mid-gestation with either a high, moderate or low virulence CSFV strains."
Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research, "Foetuses from sows infected with high or low virulence strain were obtained before delivery and piglets from sows infected with the moderate virulence strain were studied for 32 days after birth. The low virulence strain generated lower CSFV RNA load and the lowest proportion of trans-placental transmission. Severe lesions and mummifications were observed in foetuses infected with the high virulence strain. Sows infected with the moderately virulence strain showed stillbirths and mummifications, one of them delivered live piglets, all CSFV persistently infected. Efficient trans-placental transmission was detected in sows infected with the high and moderate virulence strain. The trans-placental transmission occurred before the onset of antibody response, which started at 14 days after infection in these sows and was influenced by replication efficacy of the infecting strain. Fast and solid immunity after sow vaccination is required for prevention of congenital viral persistence."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "An increase in the CD8+ T-cell subset and IFN-alpha response was found in viremic foetuses, or in those that showed higher viral replication in tissue, showing the CSFV recognition capacity by the foetal immune system after trans-placental infection."
For more information on this research see: Foetal Immune Response Activation and High Replication Rate during Generation of Classical Swine Fever Congenital Infection. Pathogens, 2020;9(4):285.
The news correspondents report that additional information may be obtained from S. Munoz-Gonzalez, OIE Reference Laboratory for Classical Swine Fever, IRTA-CReSA, 08193 Barcelona, Spain. Additional authors for this research include J.A. Bohorquez, M. Perez-Simo, I. Munoz, R. Rosell, L. Coronado, M. Domingo and L. Ganges.
Keywords for this news article include: Spain, Europe, Barcelona, RNA Viruses, Classical Swine Fever, Pestivirus Infections, Flaviviridae Infections, Swine Diseases and Conditions, Animal Diseases and Conditions.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC