URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006908936
ID : GPHN2020050500139

Date : 2020-05-01 04:01:00
Title : Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria; Investigators at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Report New Data on Malaria (Effect of adding azithromycin to the antimalarials used for seasonal malaria chemoprevention on the nutritional status of Afric…
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- Current study results on Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria have been published. According to news reporting originating from London, United Kingdom, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Mass administration of azithromycin has reduced mortality in children in sub-Saharan Africa but its mode of action is not well characterised. A recent trial found that azithromycin given alongside seasonal malaria chemoprevention was not associated with a reduction in mortality or hospital admissions in young children."
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, "We investigated the effect of azithromycin on the nutritional status of children enrolled in this study. A total of 19 578 children in Burkina Faso and Mali were randomised to receive either azithromycin or placebo alongside seasonal malaria chemoprevention with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine plus amodiaquine monthly for three malaria transmission seasons (2014-2016). After each transmission season, anthropometric measurements were collected from approximately 4000 randomly selected children (2000 per country) at a cross-sectional survey and used to derive nutritional status indicators. Binary and continuous outcomes between treatment arms were compared by Poisson and linear regression. Nutritional status among children was poor in both countries with evidence of acute and chronic malnutrition (24.9-33.3% stunted, 15.8-32.0% underweight, 7.2-26.4% wasted). There was a suggestion of improvement in nutritional status in Burkina Faso and deterioration in Mali over the study period. At the end of each malaria transmission season, nutritional status of children did not differ between treatment arms (seasonal malaria chemoprevention plus azithromycin or placebo) in either the intention-to-treat or per-protocol analyses (only children with at least three cycles of SMC in the current intervention year)."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "The addition of azithromycin to seasonal malaria chemoprevention did not result in an improvement of nutritional outcomes in children in Burkina Faso and Mali."
For more information on this research see: Effect of adding azithromycin to the antimalarials used for seasonal malaria chemoprevention on the nutritional status of African children. Tropical Medicine & International Health, 2020;():. Tropical Medicine & International Health can be contacted at: Blackwell Publishing Inc, 350 Main St, Malden, MA 02148, USA. (Wiley-Blackwell - www.wiley.com/; Tropical Medicine & International Health - onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1365-3156)
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting M. Cairns, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Additional authors for this research include G.R. Gore-Langton, Y.D. Compaore, I. Sagara, I. Kuepfer, I. Zongo, M.M. de Wit, A. Barry, M. Diarra, A. Tapily, S. Coumare, I. Thera, F. Nikiema, R.S. Yerbanga, R.M. Guissou, H. Tinto, A. Dicko, D. Chandramohan and .
Publisher contact information for the journal Tropical Medicine & International Health is: Blackwell Publishing Inc, 350 Main St, Malden, MA 02148, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Antibiotics, London, Europe, Malaria, Pediatrics, United Kingdom, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Azithromycin Therapy, Erythromycin Therapy, Protozoan Infections, Mosquito Borne Diseases, Mosquito-Borne Diseases.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC