URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912225
ID : GPHN2020050600034

Date : 2020-05-06 16:35:00
Title : Increase in virus tests expected
Ariticle : 
The Northland District Health Board expects an increase in Covid-19 testing as winter approaches.
As the region ended its 18th day of no new cases yesterday, the DHB anticipated an increase in respiratory illnesses caused by other viruses, including influenza and respiratory syncytial virus – which would mean an increase in Covid-19 testing.
“I expect to see an increase in the number of patients tested for Covid-19 in addition to the usual viral testing done,” Northland medical officer of health Dr Catherine Jackson said.
Yesterday, the Northern Advocate reported 17 people were “under investigation” for Covid-19 across Northland’s four hospitals as at 8am Monday.
The DHB confirmed that of 35 patients in hospital who had been tested or were waiting for a test as at 8am yesterday, 12 were still under investigation and the remaining 23 had tested negative.
According to the Ministry of Health, the term “under investigation” referenced someone who was eligible for testing but had not yet been tested, or someone who had been tested and did not yet have a result.
These people were not considered a confirmed or probable case. No positive cases were in hospital.
Patients admitted to Northland DHB hospitals are routinely tested for Covid-19 if they show any signs or symptoms of illness. To date, three people admitted to Northland DHB hospitals with respiratory illness have tested positive for Covid-19.
Northland’s positive case tally is still 28, 24 of whom have recovered. All eight confirmed or probable cases among Māori have recovered.
A total of 185 people were tested at Northland’s seven community-based testing centres and mobile testing locations on Monday. Overall, 5407 tests had been done in the region, with 75per cent conducted at the centres.
Yesterday was New Zealand’s second consecutive day of no new Covid-19 cases. With one probable case being reclassified, the country’s total combined number of cases was 1486. More than 1300 have recovered (88per cent).
There were no new virus-related deaths and there were four people in hospital – none in intensive care.
Director general of health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said yesterday’s numbers were “very encouraging”.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said a second day of no new cases was an achievement Kiwis could be “undeniably proud of”, but not to “do anything that snatches our potential victory at this point”.