URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868243
ID : GPHN2020042900083

Date : 2020-04-29 21:35:00
Title : Focus on random sampling in Trichy
Ariticle : 
Trichy: The Trichy district administration has intensified measures by taking random sampling from the areas of infected patients. The move is aimed at bringing down the Covid-19 active cases to zero “After taking family and secondary contacts of the positive patients, our focus has shifted to random sampling in the containment zones. The measure will help us penetrate further to check the presence of the viral disease and treat them accordingly, if found positive,” collector S Sivarasu told TOI on Monday. Pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza-like infection (ILI) in the containment areas of the 51 positive patients are being targeted. Stating that the process would be intensified further, collector said that as many as 200 swabs taken in random sampling were being processed at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH).
 “None of them in the random sample tested positive giving us a hope of making the number of positive cases to zero,” said Sivarasu exuding confidence.He also stated that the urban areas of the district might move to orange zone from red zone by May 2 and the rural areas are likely to reach the stage by May 7. Nine areas in Trichy Corporation, one in municipality, three in town panchayats and seven in rural areas have been brought under the containment zones in the district. In Trichy, a total of 107 Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) delegates turned up at the MGMGH on March 31 of which 39 tested positive. While the positive patients were kept at the isolation ward, the others were shifted to institutional quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College. Since then, contact tracing measures were intensified. Collector said that 177 family contacts of the positive patients were traced and all of them were put through testing. Results showed that seven family contacts or close contacts and five secondary contacts tested positive. Secondary contacts included housemaids, milk vendors and others visiting the quarantined houses. As of Monday, MGMGH had a total of 19 Covid-19 positive patients of which nine are native of Trichy. The nine, includes only one TJ delegate while the others are family and secondary contacts. Besides random sampling, fever patients with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension are visiting MGMGH. Such patients were being treated at the respective wards. On the deaths of four non-Covid-19 patients at MGMGH in the past 10 days, the collector said, “I have ordered them to take the sample of such dead patients to check if they had the viral infection before disposing their bodies.”
For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com