URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868684
ID : GPHN2020042900180

Date : 2020-04-28 22:50:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Borna Disease Virus; Reports Outline Borna Disease Virus Study Results from Friedrich-Loeffler Institute (Zoonotic Spillover Infections With Borna Disease Virus 1 Leading To Fatal Human Encephalitis, 1999-2019: an Epidemiological Investigat…
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Current study results on RNA Viruses - Borna Disease Virus have been published. According to news reporting originating from Greifswald, Germany, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "In 2018-19, Borna disease virus 1 (BoDV-1), the causative agent of Borna disease in horses, sheep, and other domestic mammals, was reported in five human patients with severe to fatal encephalitis in Germany. However, information on case frequencies, clinical courses, and detailed epidemiological analyses are still lacking."
Financial support for this research came from German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from Friedrich-Loeffler Institute, "We report the occurrence of BoDV-1-associated encephalitis in cases submitted to the Institute of Clinical Microbiology and Hygiene, Regensburg University Hospital, Regensburg, Germany, and provide a detailed description of newly identified cases of BoDV-1-induced encephalitis. All brain tissues from 56 encephalitis cases from Bavaria, Germany, of putative viral origin (1999-2019), which had been submitted for virological testing upon request of the attending clinician and stored for stepwise diagnostic procedure, were systematically screened for BoDV-1 RNA. Two additional BoDV-1-positive cases were contributed by other diagnostic centres. Positive results were confirmed by deep sequencing, antigen detection, and determination of BoDV-1-reactive antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid. Clinical and epidemiological data from infected patients were collected and analysed. BoDV-1 RNA and bornavirus-reactive antibodies were detected in eight newly analysed encephalitis cases and the first human BoDV-1 isolate was obtained from an unequivocally confirmed human BoDV-1 infection from the endemic area. Six of the eight BoDV-1-positive patients had no record of immunosuppression before the onset of fatal disease, whereas two were immunocompromised after solid organ transplantation. Typical initial symptoms were headache, fever, and confusion, followed by various neurological signs, deep coma, and severe brainstem involvement. Seven of nine patients with fatal encephalitis of unclear cause were BoDV-1 positive within one diagnostic centre. BoDV-1 sequence information and epidemiological analyses indicated independent spillover transmissions most likely from the local wild animal reservoir. BoDV-1 infection has to be considered as a potentially lethal zoonosis in endemic regions with reported spillover infections in horses and sheep. BoDV-1 infection can result in fatal encephalitis in immunocompromised and apparently healthy people."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Consequently, all severe encephalitis cases of unclear cause should be tested for bornviruses especially in endemic regions."
For more information on this research see: Zoonotic Spillover Infections With Borna Disease Virus 1 Leading To Fatal Human Encephalitis, 1999-2019: an Epidemiological Investigation. The Lancet Infectious Diseases, 2020;20(4):467-477. The Lancet Infectious Diseases can be contacted at: Elsevier Sci Ltd, The Boulevard, Langford Lane, Kidlington, Oxford OX5 1GB, Oxon, England.
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting M. Beer, Friedrich-Loeffler Institute, Institute of Diagnostic Virology, D-17493 Greifswald, Germany. Additional authors for this research include H.H. Niller, J.J. Wenzel, U. Reischl, W. Jilg, A. Gessner, J. Jantsch, B. Schmidt, B. Banas, S. Zoubaa, M.J. Riemenschneider, B. Salzberger, K. Angstwurm, B. Neumann, K. Fuchs, R.A. Linker, C. Brochhausen, N. Velez-Char, A. Mamilos, K. Utpatel, M. Evert, D. Rubbenstroth, K. Schlottau, A. Ebinger, L.F. Forth, D. Hoffmann, D. Hoper, S. Giese, M. Schwemmle, S. Wunderlich, J. Schlegel, F. Liesche-Starnecker, D. Tappe, J. Schmidt-Chanasit, D. Nobach, C. Herden, V. Ruf, J. Herms, K. Matiasek, G. Rieder, M. Errath, T. Freilinger and L. Gartner.
Keywords for this news article include: Greifswald, Germany, Europe, Borna Disease Virus, Bornaviridae, Epidemiology, Genetics, Health and Medicine, Mononegavirales, RNA Viruses, Viral RNA, Zoonoses, Zoonosis, Zoonotic, Friedrich-Loeffler Institute.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC