URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006888584
ID : GPHN2020050200028

Date : 2020-05-01 15:22:00
Title : Spokesmen for a pandemic
Ariticle : 
From the first outbreak – the boy Edgar, in the community of La Gloria de Perote, would be patient zero – from influenza A H1N1, to the declaration of the pandemic, after two weeks. Faced with the initial bewilderment of the cauldronist administration, Governor Fidel Herrera Beltrán attracted the floodlights and demanded extraordinary resources to serve the inhabitants of the affected area.
But on Thursday, April 23, 2009, then-Secretary of Health, José Angel Córdova Villalobos, announced the closure of schools, libraries, museums, auditoriums and any other space in the Federal District and the State of Mexico. In budding, the declaration of health emergency that would be issued by President Felipe Calderón.
The decision had been made. And in Los Pinos a "command center" was installed. In terms of communication, the spokesman of the presidency, Maximiliano Cortázar and Juan Ignacio Zavala, had recruited José Carreño Carlón, Fernando Lerdo de Tejada and other experts in political marketing, to define a strategy. To serve as a spokesman, they defined, they had to appoint an expert in medical emergencies.
But Pablo Kuri Morales was in Paris to speak at an international seminar on influenza vaccines that would take place in the last days of that April in Cannes. Refugee at UNAM – rescued by the then rector, José Narro Robles – the respected epidemiologist had resigned from the management of the National Center for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control, where he had served for 18 years.
Since arriving in Los Pinos, the PAN has tried to dismantle the old structures that– according to their understanding - from UNAM controlled the health system. In the six-day Foxist, Julio Frenk led those efforts and the Presidency controlled the budgets, through Popular Insurance.
In 2006, former federal deputy José Angel Córdova Villalobos arrived in the Ministry of Health, who appointed Maki Esther Ortiz and Mauricio Hernández Avila as his undersecretaries. Much of the struggles that then slowed the sanitary system still remain. In those escarceous, Kuri Morales was forced to leave CENAVECE in the hands of Miguel Angel Lezana, who collaborated with the undersecretary of innovation and quality.
Three days before the seminar in Cannes, Kuri Morales would make the transatlantic flight. On Friday 24, in the morning, Rector Narro had summoned a team of academics to prepare an action plan, which he reached to attend, to offer his recommendations.
On Sunday 26, in Los Pinos, the command center attended its first crisis: reports of deaths that spread the media did not match the official figures. Cortázar's advisers insisted on recruiting the best epidemiologist as a spokesman and called him, on cell phone. At 4:00 on Monday 28 – Mexico time – Kuri Morales replied. He had to return as soon as possible, to take on his new assignments, but he would immediately have to fulfill a first round of interviews, with the news outlets of the electronic media. The Federal District arrived until April 30. just 11 years ago.
Kuri Morales returned to give voice to the figures that the Pinos team processed, on presidential instructions. The then head of the Office of the Presidency, Patricia Elizondo, and the holder of SEDESOL, Ernesto Cordero had to enter the remove, in the face of the initial bewilderment. The National Epidemiological Surveillance System coordinated by Alejandro Macías Hernández and involving Arantxa Colchero, Ruy López Ruidaura and Hugo López-Gatell, had been relegated.
Eleven years later, Lopez-Gatell and López Ruidaura go for the rematch. In their attempt they are accompanied by José Luis Alomía and Ricardo Cortés Alcalá.
Risk communication or promotionCustom? After two weeks of evening appearances, preceded by The Pulse of Health, the weekly appearance in the morning, López-Gatell must dodge the risk of sanctions of the administrative authority, by the emergence of "Susana Distance" and the "Dr. Gatell", two comics that have motivated complaints, of obligatory procedure. The communication team of Palacio Nacional justified that the elaboration of these vignettes did not divert resources from the treasury. To silence suspicion, the undersecretary of prevention and promotion had to wear lenses yesterday, in his virtual town hall with children from all over the country.The politicization of pandemics is a collateral of both periods. On the sidelines, businessman Carlos Lomelí, former federal detail in Jalisco, has distributed more than 5,000 food pantries and 20,000 kits with face masks, antibacterial gel, bottle covers and latex gloves, in colonies in the metropolitan area of Guadalajara.
Side effectsSubscribers. The Baja California government will impose an environmental tax... more a way to help meet the goals to curb climate change than to thicken the state treasury. In addition to concrete actions to inhibit damage to ecosystems and public health, the Low-Cakaphonian authorities pledged to be accountable for the resources generated by the new levy, labelled to reduce hearing pollution, ozone protection and natural resource management.
Extension. Pursuant to the health contingency decree due to force majeure, the courts, both federal and local, interrupted procedural terms and deadlines between March 18 and April 19, and limited face-to-face work, with guards for emergency or emergency. This suspension will extend until May 29, 2020, and covers the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation, the Collegiate and Unitarian Circuit Courts; District, Civil and Commercial Courts; and the Federal Administrative Court of Justice, including the Specialized Chamber on Intellectual Property and the Specialized Chamber on Environmental and Regulatory Matters. The list of procedures considered as urgent cases has been expanded to include additional aspects that may facilitate the admission of administrative actions to the on-call courts.