URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892805
ID : GPHN2020050200167

Date : 2020-05-02 09:40:00
Title : Quarks and Tamiflu: the bullets of science against covid-19
Ariticle : 
A few miles from California's San Francisco Bay is the SLAC National Laboratory, an acronym for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. When it began in 1962 it was a project of physicists interested in knowing what are the fundamental bricks of matter, what forces unite them and how the whole world is shaped with these indivisible blocks.
To answer the questions of those times a particle accelerator was built, and in 1970, studying the shocks of electrons against nuclei of atoms, neutrons and protons were found to be made of quarks.
Quarks have since become the elementary particles that, along with electrons and two relatives close to them, form everything around us.
m{795513}A short time later, in that same laboratory, the quark "charm" was discovered—one of the six types of quark we know. A year later, the heaviest relative of the electron called taon was also discovered there.
So within a few years SLAC showed us that six quarks and six leptons (including the electron, muon and stud) would be what forms the entire universe. For these findings, the Nobel Prizes in Physics were awarded in 1976, 1990 and 1995 to the researchers involved in the experiments. Moreover, the lab would earn a place in the history of physics, and then in the history of chemistry and technology.
m{801222}While physicists worked to understand the fundamental structure of matter and discovered quarks, others organized the organization with biologists and chemists to place measuring devices on the side of the accelerator. They fluttered like beetles in night lamps to take advantage of the light coming out of the electron beam. Over time, these parasitic research groups became so important that the original machine was modified to provide them with the synchrotron radiation they so badly wanted. The physicists sought new defeats, built other accelerators, and the synchrotron light illuminated unknown regions of the microscopic world that biologists, chemists and physicians wanted to see in detail.
The light coming out of electron accelerators is so bright, penetrating and consistent that it allows you to see what would otherwise be imperceptible.
It was in that same place, on the East Coast of the United States that, in the 1990s, the chemist Roger David Kornberg managed to elucidate the structure of an enzyme involved in the gene transcription process, a process by which information is copied from one molecule to another in the cells. The work was recognized with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2006. And it was also there that, in the 1990s, several companies, in cooperation with Stanford University, took an interest in that unique light that illuminates knowledge and generates ideas for developing new products.
With its help, the most advanced integrated circuits for computing began to be developed, microelectronics were promoted to unsuspected levels, and Tamiflu was developed in research in which companies such as Hewlett Packard, IBM, Intel, Northrop Grumman, Sony, Genentech, Pfizer and Roche, among others, invested their money.
Oseltamivir: what is this drug for?Oseltamivir is a selective antiviral prodrug against the flu virus. Prodrmacos are inactive substances that the body converts into active through metabolism. It is produced by Hoffmann-La Roche under the trade name: Tamiflu.
Its action is based on the inhibition of the enzyme neuraminidase, present in the envelope (capsid) of the influenza virus. This enzyme breaks down molecular bonds that allow the virus to enter cells and then also, already multiplied, thereleases the infected cell to look for other cells.
Studies in patients with H1N1 indicated that it is sensitive to neuraminidase inhibitors, but is resistant to other antivirals.
In other words: neuraminidas is the therapeutic target of Tamiflu. The word diana exists in Spanish with almost the same meaning as the original Italian, in which it is used to designate a "military touch that is given at dawn for soldiers to rise", and proceeds, by methyphony, from the first hour of the day. In medicine, a therapeutic target is said to the object to which the attack is directed.
For covid-19, the therapeutic target of developing drugs is protease. This enzyme facilitates the replication of the virus by cutting the proteins that, already in segments, begin to form the copy of the virus at high speed.
The structure of this protease was obtained only a few weeks after the SARS-CoV-2 virus was discovered. The Shanghai synchrotron that generates X-rays—that light we've been talking about—published the structure now explored around the world.
When the same was attempted in 1984 with the HIV virus, the technology did not yet have modern methods of serial crystallography to solve complex and large structures from segments of the structure. Thanks to these new techniques we now have the arrangement of enzyme atoms that could be the target of pharmaceutical attacks.
Specialists already have a list of dozens of compounds that could reach the active points of protease to embed and inhibit its activity. Tests are ongoing.
Synchrotron light is X-rays with extraordinary properties. Its use in the chemical, biological and medical research of our time is inescapable. Currently countries with competitive scientific infrastructure have sources of this wonderful light. Thus, for more examples, we will say that in one of the lines of the ALBA synchrotron in Barcelona, Spain, a new malaria medicine has been studied. The protein used to treat Chagas disease and malaria has been examined to determine its structure, and models are built, atom by atom, for the development of other drugs.
So the relationship between quarks, Tamiflu and coronavirus is in particle accelerators. Those machines that summon talent, open new doors and generate light.
As someone used to say: "There is darkness in life, but there are also lights," and there is a light that shines with such intensity that it is light of all light.
m{795512}SVS ? ARESS