URL : https://www.canada.ca/en/national-film-board/news/2020/05/rendez-vous-de-la-francophonie-nfb-films-available-to-francophone-communities-and-francophiles-all-across-canada-over-270-free-screenings-in-more-t.html
ID : HECA2020050200016

Date : 2020-05-01 00:00:00
Title : Rendez-vous de la Francophonie: NFB films available to francophone communities and francophiles all across Canada. Over 270 free screenings in more than 70 cities, in addition to online programming.
Ariticle : 
March 3, 2020 – Ottawa – National Film Board of Canada (NFB)
For the 15th consecutive year, the 
National Film Board of Canada
 (NFB) is taking part in the 
Rendez-vous de la Francophonie
 (RVF), which runs from March 1 to 31. The theme of this year’s RVF is the environment in all its many facets. During this epic celebration of Canada’s francophonie, the NFB will be touring every province and territory in the country, bringing over 270 free screenings to more than 70 cities. Francophone communities and francophiles will have access to five programs of documentary and animated films for audiences of all ages, in venues such as public libraries, workplaces, schools and universities, community theatres, churches, and cultural centres. Special programming will also be available online at 
ONF.ca
 throughout RVF.
Putting the spotlight on French-language culture throughout Canada, the five NFB programs for the RVF have a common denominator—they all illustrate a desire for change. The topics range from learning to dance (
Point d’équilibre/
A Delicate Balance
) and finding happiness (
Le bonheur de Lucien/
Lucien’s Happiness
), to the world of children (
Mamie et Mia/
Granny and Mia
), community engagement (
Le chemin rouge/
Red Path
), and asserting oneself through sign language (
Les mots qui dansent/
The Dance of Words
).
Quick facts
The NFB at RVF 2020
: five programs available near you
A detailed screening schedule can be found at 
RVF.ca
, on the 
Calendar
 page.
Online programming for RVF at ONF.ca
A special selection of films from the NFB’s collection will be offered online throughout the RVF, from March 1 to 31. Watch (or rewatch) a host of documentaries and animated films featuring Canada’s francophonie in all its diversity on 
ONF.ca
, when and where you like. All you need is a screen.
– 30 –
Stay Connected
Online Screening Room: 
NFB.ca
 
NFB Facebook
 | 
NFB Twitter
 | 
NFB Instagram
 | 
NFB Blog
 | 
NFB YouTube
 | 
NFB Vimeo
About the NFB