URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/xl/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1315797.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500052

Date : 2020-05-04 19:49:00
Title : Struggle forever and young forever
Ariticle : 
Original title: Daily Observation of &quot;Epidemiology&quot; 丨 Forever Struggle Forever Young
● Five Talks about China&#39;s Anti-epidemic Practice and Modernization of National Governance
Today is May Fourth Youth Day. Today, talking about China&#39;s anti-epidemic practice and modernization of national governance, let&#39;s start with youth and struggle.
In the late autumn of last year, the Fourth Plenary Session of the Nineteenth Central Committee of the Party was convened to make major arrangements around &quot;adhering to and improving the socialist system with Chinese characteristics and promoting the modernization of the national governance system and governance capabilities.&quot; The Fourth Plenary Session was convened after celebrating the 70th anniversary of the founding of New China. Life is rare in the seventies. The People&#39;s Republic of China has gone through 70 glorious years, but it is still brisk.
General Secretary Xi Jinping said on the eve of the National Day, &quot;Now we are stepping up from scratch and starting again after 70 years.&quot; Previously, in May last year, he was at the Yudu River in Jiangxi, where the Red Army started the Long March. He once said affectionately that we would &quot;reorganize our outfits and start again.&quot; Before that, in the fall of 2018, to celebrate the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up, he emphasized in Shanghai that he should strengthen his confidence and determination to start reform and opening up again. Before that, in December 2012, he visited Guangdong and issued a call for reform and opening up.
Starting again is the state of youth on the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up, and the state of youth on the 70th anniversary of New China. Youth does not only belong to youth, it belongs to all strugglers.
After the Yangtze the waves push forward. In fact, whether it is the front wave or the back wave is not the most important. The most important thing is to be in the Yangtze River. Da Jiangdong went vast and mighty. A drop of water will never dry up if it merges itself into the river and into the sea. We today, no matter what time you are in the tens of thousands, only put yourself in the torrent of national rejuvenation, in order to hit the water and the waves to stop the flying boat.
The Communist Party of China, the world&#39;s largest political party, will celebrate its 100th anniversary next year. Last year, during the education of the whole party on the theme of &quot;Not forgetting the original intention and remembering the mission&quot;, General Secretary Xi Jinping said with great emphasis, &quot;How can our party, as a century-old party, maintain its advanced nature and purity, and maintain its youthful vitality forever? The support and support of the people, how to achieve long-term governance, is a fundamental question that we must answer and solve well. &quot;
A hundred years, it is very long. And if you climb high and look far, judging by the vision of seeking great achievements, a century-old party is still a political party full of youth. It has accumulated valuable growth experience, but it will also continue to encounter storms, dangers, and crises. It will also go through various exams and continue to grow in battles.
180 years ago, in 1840, the Opium War broke out. That was when the fate of the nation reached the bottom. The ancestors were unwilling to perish and wanted to rise up to save China, but it was not easy to go up from the bottom. It wasn&#39;t until the May 4th Movement that the Communist Party of China was born that the Chinese nation started its uphill journey until today, a crucial period of great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
The Chinese nation has a civilization of 5,000 years, and it is still young. &quot;Gou Rixin, every day new, every day new, innovative and innovative, advancing with the times&quot;, this is a long-standing gene in traditional Chinese culture. General Secretary Xi Jinping once said at the conference to celebrate the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up, &quot;With a view of thousands of years of history, reform and opening up are generally the historical norm of China.&quot;
There is no doubt that the Chinese nation will continue to move towards the future with a posture of reform and opening up. For 40 years, 70 years, 100 years, 180 years, and 5000 years, we step by step into the depths of history, not to alienate from today ’s reality, but precisely to measure the modernization of state governance today with the historical depth scale. Measure the anti-epidemic struggle enough to write into the history of the nation.
&quot;The Chinese nation has experienced many hardships in the history, but it has never been crushed, but it has become more frustrated and more courageous. It has continued to grow and rise from the hardships.&quot; On February 23, it promoted the prevention and control of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. At the conference of the deployment of economic and social development work, in the last paragraph of the speech of more than 10,000 words, General Secretary Xi Jinping said this eloquently.
If the world&#39;s situation is not prosperous, it will decline, and if the world&#39;s governance is not advanced, it will retreat. A big country with a population of 1.4 billion has a road of modernizing national governance. Only by overcoming any hardships and obstacles and moving forward courageously can we reach the other side we expect. Only by constantly answering in practice what is &quot;persistence and consolidation, perfection and development&quot;, can we achieve the set goals.
The world today is facing a major change that has not been seen in a century. This global epidemic that has not been encountered in a hundred years is an integral part of this great change. It came suddenly and fiercely, bringing unprecedented impact. Under the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee and the arduous efforts of the people across the country, the defensive battles in Hubei and Wuhan have achieved decisive results, and the national epidemic prevention and control blockade has achieved major strategic results.
But the plague has not receded, and more complex challenges are still ahead. We still have to be cautious as always, move forward cautiously, move forward with determination, move forward with innovation, and move forward with courage. The Fourth Plenary Session of the Nineteenth Central Committee of the Party proposed the goal of modernizing the country&#39;s governance system and governance capacity by the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, by 2035, and 100 years after the founding of New China. Standing in these historical depths facing the future, and looking at the fight against the epidemic in front of us, we can better feel the practical significance of going through this big exam and the necessary mentality and necessary state ready to welcome more big exams at any time.
It should be a state of youthful vitality. That should be a state of unremitting struggle. It should be a state that can both stabilize the chassis and be courageous to defend. It should be a state of daring to struggle, daring to sacrifice, and daring to win.
It is a state of eternal struggle and eternal youth.
(Special commentator Yang Yu)
Editor in charge: Liu Guangbo