URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9402788.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100059

Date : 2020-05-01 17:04:00
Title : People&#39;s Daily: Use various means to punish China? Daydream
Ariticle : 
Original title: Punishing China by various means? Daydream
&quot;This statement has no legal basis and no precedent in this respect.&quot; Some people in the United States threatened to punish China by various means. A spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs went back at the press conference. When you dismantle someone else ’s station, you will eventually dismantle your own station. &quot;
Punishing China by various means is the latest intimidation, revealing the rogue face, full of blackmail and even blackmail. Unfortunately, this ridiculous remark can&#39;t scare China. The reason can&#39;t be simpler. This argument is neither ethical nor ethical, nor legal. I&#39;m afraid they don&#39;t believe they will succeed.
As the Foreign Ministry spokesperson said: “I do n’t remember who was punished after major epidemics such as H1N1 flu, Ebola, and Zika? Who took responsibility for this?” Based on the bad past, the US government is the most They should be held accountable for their irresponsible practices. The most important thing is, where the new crown virus originates is still a mystery to be solved. Is it just a little bit of logic common sense to ask China for no reason, and even to seek guilt by &quot;holding a group&quot;?
The reason why some American politicians throw out the &quot;punishment theory&quot; is not difficult to infer, because they deliberately dumped the pot but failed. On the contrary, it was both laughed at by the international community and condemned by the United States. Under such circumstances, some politicians became angry and hysterical. They became more hysterical and intensified. They even asked China to settle their accounts.
How big a market can this kind of rogue thinking of self-blaming only want to blame? Can&#39;t get rid of the pot and blame by coquettishness, can you get rid of the pot and blame by splashing? Sapo doesn&#39;t make saone, and then thinks China will cooperate well, naive or naive?
In fact, according to the crazy tones of some unreliable politicians in the United States, most of the time it is through addiction to incite emotions. By deceiving some people, diverting their attention, and manipulating topics that are beneficial to them, they will feel very useful, and to some extent, they will realize some already obvious private interests. Of course, it does not rule out that they will really do something impulsive, do something that offends the Chinese people, and do something that breaks the bottom line and challenges the law. But it is certain that once it touches the limit that the Chinese people can tolerate, especially when it involves national sovereignty and core interests, China will not give up half a step, it cannot tolerate it, and it is fully capable. The Chinese people have full confidence in this.
The global epidemic is serious. The epidemic in the United States has reached this point. What the world should do and what not to do is now public opinion. &quot;Anti-epidemic is like saving fire, time is life.&quot; When is the time to come up with the sloppy set, and to engage in division and confrontation? The accusation and blame should not be allowed to disperse the energy of international cooperation in fighting against epidemics, and politicized and stigmatized behaviors should not be allowed to create new contradictions and differences, and they should not be allowed to move against the current and undermine the axioms and principles commonly followed by the international community. It is unpopular and dangerous to talk about China with the epidemic situation. Some politicians in the United States will only wait until a real nightmare if they are just talking and talking, and telling dreams in the daytime.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming