URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iircuyvi0773927.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100016

Date : 2020-04-30 20:56:00
Title : People&#39;s Daily: These 10 questions that the United States must answer
Ariticle : 
Original title: These 10 questions, the United States must answer
100 days, more than one million. In the more than 100 days since the first new crown case was diagnosed on January 20, the number of confirmed cases in the United States has increased from one to more than 1 million, making it the country with the largest number of new crown diagnoses and deaths worldwide. The domestic epidemic situation in the United States is grim, but some American politicians do not devote their energy to the fight against the epidemic. However, this not only failed to transfer responsibility, but also further exposed the suspicions in the prevention and control of the US epidemic, which triggered various doubts from the outside world. Regarding these 10 question marks of the epidemic, the US government has the responsibility and obligation to answer clearly and give an explanation to the whole world.
　　
　　
　　
1. The avian influenza virus transformation suddenly restarted last year, and then silently, why?
1. Regarding the restarted avian influenza virus modification experiment last year, why does the US release no more updates?
In February of last year, according to the website of the US magazine Science, US government agencies “quietly” approved experiments that have caused a huge controversy for the transformation of avian influenza viruses. Such experiments considered “dangerous” will be restarted soon after being banned for many years. . Related experiments can transform the H5N1 avian influenza virus so that it can be easily transmitted between mammals, which is considered to be a risk of human-to-human transmission. Why did the United States restart such dangerous experiments after the relevant experiments were suspended for more than four years? Why is there no progress in disclosure?
The Science reported in February 2019 that US authorities had quietly approved the avian influenza virus modification experiment. The research, aiming to transform the H5N1 virus to be more capable of infecting mammals, was controversial and considered extremely dangerous. Some experts believe that the modification may increase the risk of human-to-human transmission of the virus.
The question is why the US government decided to unfreeze the experiment 4 years after it was halted, and why there are no more updates regarding the experiment.
2. The US military biological laboratory was closed for a while, and what was the truth?
2. The United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) was previously closed. What is the truth behind?
A few days ago, according to the &quot;global biodefence&quot; (globalbiodefence) website, the US Army Infectious Disease Medical Research Institute (USAMRIID) in Fort Detrick, Maryland, has been fully operational. In July last year, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) formally issued a &quot;stop production order&quot; to the US Army Infectious Disease Medical Research Institute (USAMRIID) in Fort Detrick, Maryland, requesting it to stop &quot;specific biological agents and toxins &quot;the study. In March of this year, a special petition appeared on the White House petition website, asking the US government to announce the real reason for the “closing” of Fort Detrick Biological Laboratory last July. USAMRIID&#39;s mysterious &quot;shutdown&quot; and rapid restart attract attention. How does the US respond to the request on the petition on the White House petition website?
The Global Biodefence reported in April that the USAMRIID, US Army&#39;s primary institution and facility for biological research headquartered in Fort Detrick, Maryland, has resumed full operation. The institution was once ordered to halt the study of biological select agents and toxins (BSATs) last July. In March, there was a petition on the White House website demanding the clarification of the shutdown of USAMRIID. Given that these issues have become a primary public concern, what is the US government&#39;s response?
3. Last year ’s infectious disease exercise scenario was staged this year, is it really just a coincidence?
3. The US Department of Health and Human Services ran a scenario last year that was similar to the COVID-19 outbreak. Is this just a coincidence?
A secret US official document disclosed by the New York Times in March this year showed that from January to August 16, 2019, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) initiated the organization of a codenamed &quot;Crimson Infection Contagion), the exercise takes the earliest virus in China as a simulation scenario. In October 2019, multiple agencies in the United States organized another global epidemic exercise code-named &quot;Event 201&quot;. The model in the exercise assumes that a corona virus called CAPS is more deadly than SARS and spreads more easily like a cold, but has not developed a vaccine and can quickly spread to promote a global pandemic. Is it just a coincidence that the settings of the infectious disease exercise conducted in the United States last year are so high in reality? Since there are drills ahead, why did the United States not pay enough attention and attention after the New Crown Epidemic, and claim that it is &quot;under control&quot;?
In March, the New York Times quoted a draft report obtained from the US government saying that from January to August 2019, the US Department of Health and Human Services ran a scenario called “Crimson Contagion” that simulated the fictional outbreak involving a group of tourists visiting China. They then became infected and flew to various countries, including the US.
Last October, a high-level pandemic exercise named Event 201 was hosted by a couple of US organizations. The drill simulated a scenario that a fictional virus called CAPS, which causes more severe symptoms than SARS and transmits via the respiratory route like the common flu, had caused a pandemic. Like COVID-19, there is no vaccine for CAPS.
Given the fact that the simulated virus is so much like COVID-19, is this just a coincidence? Another question is, why did it not take enough preventive measures at the early stages of the coronavirus outbreak since the US has predicted a similar pandemic?
4. Predicting the epidemic in advance and ignoring warning information, why?
4.US intelligence officials warned of coronavirus crisis as early as last November. Why the warning was ignored?
In April of this year, according to the American Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), there was internal information that as early as late November 2019, American intelligence officials had repeatedly warned the National Defense Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon and the White House that an infectious disease was sweeping China Wuhan area. The National Medical Information Center (NCMI) issued a report detailing the virus pandemic in November last year, which was later identified as the new coronavirus pneumonia &quot;COVID-19&quot;. Some analysts believe that the outbreak in Wuhan may evolve into a catastrophic event. According to the US &quot;Washington Post&quot; website reported that in the beginning of more than two months, Trump received a intensive warning from the US intelligence agency about the new coronavirus. Why did the US government drag on until March 13th to declare a &quot;national emergency&quot;?
In April, according to the American Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), it was said that, as early as late November 2019, US intelligence officials had warned the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon, and the White House that an infectious disease was sweeping through Wuhan , China.
Last November, the US National Center for Medical Intelligence (NCMI) issued a report detailing the coronavirus pandemic, which was later identified as &quot;COVID-19&quot;. Some analysts believed that the outbreak in Wuhan might have evolved into a catastrophic event. According to the Washington Post, in more than two months from January to February, Trump had received intensive warnings from the US intelligence agencies about the coronavirus. Why did the US government not declare a “National Emergency” until March 13?
5. How many flu patients are actually infected with new coronary pneumonia, can you make it clear?
5.Among the reported influenza deaths in the US, can the US clarify how many cases are actually infected with COVID-19?
On February 21 this year, Japan ’s Asahi Television reported that “some of the 14,000 people killed by influenza in the United States may have died from new coronary pneumonia”. A report released by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at the end of February shows that the United States has estimated at least 32 million flu this winter flu season. In the US House of Representatives on March 11, Robert Redfield, director of the US Centers for Disease Control, personally admitted that in the United States, there are indeed some people with &quot;flu&quot; who are actually infected with new coronary pneumonia. In the United States, how many new crown cases are there for people infected with influenza? Has the United States used the flu to cover up new coronary pneumonia? When will the United States make public the samples of the US influenza virus and its genetic sequence, or allow WHO or the United Nations to send experts for sampling and analysis?
Japanese Asahi Television reported on February 21 that some of the 14,000 people reportedly killed by influenza in the US might have died from coronavirus, which became a hot topic soon after.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a report at the end of February, showing that there have been at least 32 million flu illnesses in the US that winter.
On March 11, at the House of Representatives, Robert Redfield, the director of the US CDC, admitted that some in the US who were previously thought to have been killed from the flu may have been infected with coronavirus.
Among the reported influenza deaths in the US, how many cases were infected with COVID-19? Did the US government cover up the spread of coronavirus with the flu? When will the US government make public the samples of the US influenza virus and its genetic sequence, or allow experts from the WHO or the United Nations to sample and analyze?
6. When exactly does the new coronavirus appear in the United States? Has the community communication already begun?
6.When did the novel coronavirus first appear in the US? Did community transmission of the coronavirus start sooner than it was reported?
In late April of this year, the latest test report released by the public health department of the Santa Clara County Government in California showed that as early as February 6th, some people died of new crown pneumonia, which is longer than the first new crown death case previously announced by the United States. More than 20 days in advance. According to the Los Angeles Times, health officer Sara Cody of Santa Clara County said that the newly discovered deaths indicated that there was “a considerable degree of community transmission” at the time. Santa Clara County Chief Executive Jeffrey Smith said that this shows that the new coronavirus has been spreading in California as early as January or even earlier. California Governor Newsom has announced that it will conduct an autopsy on the suspected death of the new crown since December last year. When exactly does the new coronavirus appear in the United States? Has the spread of the new US crown epidemic in the community already begun?
A report released in late April by local health authorities suggests that a 57-year-old woman from Santa Clara County of California died from COVID-19 on February 6, some 20 days earlier than the date the US announced its first death caused by the virus.
The Los Angeles Times quoted Santa Clara County health officer Sara Cody in a piece saying, &quot;we presume that each of them represents community transmission and that there was some significant level of virus circulating in our community in early February.&quot;
County Executive Officer Jeffrey V. Smith said this is evidence that the coronavirus was circulating in California as early as January or even earlier.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom has ordered all counties in the state to review autopsies of suspected coronavirus deaths dating back to December.
When did the novel coronavirus first appear in the US? Did community transmission of the coronavirus start sooner than it was reported?
7. The world&#39;s first human trial to launch a new crown vaccine, how did you get the strain so quickly?
7. How did the US get the virus strains so soon to start the first human testing of a vaccine against COVID-19?
According to the Wall Street Journal, the National Institutes of Health said on March 16 that Moderna Inc, a biotechnology company. (MRNA) An experimental vaccine against a new coronavirus has begun its first human test. For the world&#39;s first human trial of a vaccine against a new coronavirus in the United States, experts said that the United States is too fast, unless the test is started very early and the virus strain is obtained earlier. Why are human vaccine vaccine trials in the United States so fast? When and how did the United States obtain the strain?
The Wall Street Journal on March 16 reported that the first human testing of Moderna Inc. &#39;s experimental vaccine against the COVID-19 had already begun. Experts immediately raised questions about the speed of the vaccine development, saying that it would not be possible unless the US had obtained the virus strains from very early on. So how did the US start the first human testing of the vaccine so soon? When and how did they get the virus strains?
8. The government says the epidemic is not serious, but officials are dumping stocks. Why?
8. Why did the US government keep downplaying the pandemic while its officials privately dumped stocks?
According to the &quot;Washington Post&quot; report, about a week before the new crown pneumonia epidemic triggered a plunge in US stocks, the US Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr intensively sold 33 stocks held by himself and his wife, valued at $ 628,000 Between $ 1.72 million. Why did the U.S. government understate the country ’s new coronary pneumonia epidemic in mid-February, and many officials of the Senate Intelligence Committee dumped millions of shares at that time? Do politicians use insider trading to sell shares while concealing the epidemic from the public?
According to the Washington Post, US Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr and his wife sold up to 1.7 million in 33 different stocks just one week before the market plunged. Why did these officials at the Committee act so quickly while the government was continually understating the pandemic?
Why is the vital information kept confidential to the public while the government officials were taking advantage to practice insider-trading?
9. American experts and scholars are not allowed to talk about the new coronavirus freely. What do they want to do?
9.Why are US experts not allowed to discuss COVID-19 in public?
According to the &quot;New York Times&quot; report, after Vice President Mike Pence led the epidemic prevention work in the United States, the White House began to strengthen the control of the &quot;voice&quot; of the new coronavirus information on February 27 local time. Many scientists and government health officials including Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and the top CDC expert on infectious diseases Requirement: Only after coordinating with the Office of the Vice President of the United States can a statement or public appearance be discussed about the new coronavirus. Why does the United States, which claims freedom of speech, not allow experts and scholars to freely discuss the new coronavirus? Do you want to hide something or are you afraid?
The New York Times reported that the White House began tightening controls for all coronavirus messaging from health officials on February 27 after Vice President Mike Pence led the nation&#39;s epidemic prevention and control efforts.
Several scientists and government health officials, including the nation&#39;s leading infectious disease expert Anthony S. Fauci, have been asked to make statements or make public appearances about the COVID-19 only after consultation with the US vice president&#39;s office.
Why does the United States, which claims free speech, not allow experts and scholars to discuss the novel coronavirus in public? Does the US want to hide something or fear of something?
10. What kind of research is the overseas biological laboratory doing, and why is it never disclosed to the outside world?
10.What research is being done in the US overseas biological laboratories? Why does the US keep tight-lipped about it?
According to a recent report from the Russian Satellite News Agency, the Russian State Duma ’s Vice Chairman of the International Affairs Committee, Polkronskaya, proposed to verify the legality of US biological laboratories around the world. Not long ago, a spokesperson for the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed concern about the establishment of a biological laboratory in the former Soviet Union by the United States. Gregory Trofimchuk, an expert in the field of Russian internal affairs, diplomacy and defense, said that the work performed by these biological laboratories in the United States is never disclosed to the outside world, and these laboratories have caused a lot of problems. There have been outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases such as measles. What research are these biological laboratories established in the United States doing? Why is the United States silent about the functions, uses, and safety factors of these biological laboratories?
Natalia Poklonskaya, deputy chairman of the State Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs, has proposed verifying the legitimacy of US biological laboratories around the world, according to Sputnik news agency.
Not long ago, a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry expressed concern about the establishment of a biological laboratory in countries from the former Soviet Union.
Grigory Trofimchuk, a Russian expert in the field of internal affairs, foreign affairs, and national defense, said the work of these biological laboratories was never disclosed to the outside world, and that they had caused several problems, with widespread outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases such as measles at the laboratory site.
What research is being done in these biological laboratories? Why does the US keep tight-lipped about the function, use, the safety of these biological laboratories?
Editor in charge: Yang Jie