URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0835980.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100034

Date : 2020-05-01 11:25:00
Title : The actual number of deaths may have exceeded 100,000 US media to reveal data and underreport
Ariticle : 
Original title: Observation in North America 丨 The actual number of deaths may have exceeded 100,000 US media to reveal data
As of April 30 local time, the official death toll of new US pneumonitis has exceeded 60,000. However, after investigation by major media in the United States, it is believed that the actual death figures are quite different from official statistics, and may even be several times more than officially announced.
The total number of deaths in areas with high incidence of epidemics soars, or it may be a miss for new pneumonia
The &quot;New York Times&quot; survey found that according to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the total number of deaths in the seven states where the New Crown Epidemic prevailed during the five weeks from March 8 to April 11 was nearly 50% higher than the normal level. These states are New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Massachusetts, Illinois, Maryland and Colorado.
The survey pointed out that during the period when the epidemic was most severe, the sudden increase in the total number of deaths indicated that many of the cases classified as other causes of death were actually related to new coronary pneumonia. Take the epidemic center New York State as an example. In the past five weeks, the number of deaths in New York State has more than tripled than usual.
&quot;New York Times&quot; further proposed that the latest survey shows that this data is likely to have reached six times the normal level.
The actual death may have exceeded 100,000, experts say it is incomparable with the previous epidemic
Some experts pointed out that the total number of actual deaths caused by the new coronary pneumonia is likely to be tens of thousands more than the current statistics, or even more than twice.
The ABC survey pointed out that the US Centers for Disease Control has conducted post-mortem analysis of the H1N1 influenza virus outbreak in the United States in 2009 and 2010, and concluded that the real data is likely to be 15 times higher than official statistics. The ABC said the actual death count for new coronary pneumonia may &quot;dramatically&quot; exceed current official statistics.
Alex Williamson of the American College of Pathologists believes that H1N1 and coronavirus are completely different and cannot be compared at all. &quot;None of us has ever seen an epidemic like New Coronary Pneumonia, which has stalled the entire world.&quot; Daniel Weinberger, an epidemiologist at the Yale School of Public Health, told ABC that current death statistics &quot;It may be tens of thousands lower than the actual number,&quot; or even &quot;about twice the number of deaths that have been counted.&quot;
Lack of testing, resulting in incomplete statistics
ABC survey shows that so far, only 5.5 million people in the United States have undergone the new crown test, accounting for 2% of the total population of the United States. Although compared with many countries, 5.5 million is a huge number, but the ABC pointed out that from the perspective of population, 2% is far lower than the test level that the United States should reach, which is also important for the incomplete death statistics the reason.
The ABC said that the testing conditions in various states and regions in the United States continue to be insufficient, meaning that many places can only provide testing for patients who already have symptoms. &quot;Those who died without testing, as well as those who died at home or other non-medical institutions, are not counted.&quot;
The report also pointed out that there is currently no nationally unified system for investigating the number of deaths in the United States. Even until mid-April, only deaths with clear positive test results are still counted. Pathologist Williamson told the ABC that if it is not yet known how many people are infected, it is impossible to know the accuracy of the statistics.
Omissions and concealment, delayed statistics
In addition to the statistical errors caused by insufficient test conditions, media surveys pointed out that the underreporting and concealment also further masked the true numbers.
The ABC pointed out that the United States has not yet counted the number of nursing home population deaths due to new coronary pneumonia, but data already available in Europe indicate that more than half of deaths in Europe are likely to come from nursing homes. Take France as an example. When France began to incorporate the death data of nursing homes into the total number of new coronary pneumonia deaths, the number of deaths in France surged by 40%. The ABC pointed out that the number of deaths caused by new coronary pneumonia or related complications in American nursing homes has long been tens of thousands, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did not begin to include nursing home death data until last week. These data are included in the national death statistics. &quot;
&quot;Capitol Hill News&quot; pointed out that compared with underreporting, the United States even has an official case of concealment. The survey pointed out that because the death statistics of medical workers are 10% higher than the official, Florida recently detained the state&#39;s new coronary pneumonia death data for more than a week. Stephen Nielsen, chairman of the State Medical Examination Board, told the Capitol Hill that the local health department intervened and told him that the official plan was to remove the cause of death and case description from the death data. The Capitol Hill also pointed out that in Miami-Dade County, Palm Beach County, and Hillsboro County in Florida, there are also cases of official refusal to release death data. Paul Petrino, a staff member at the Palm Beach County Office, said he was shocked when he received a call from the county prosecutor to stop publishing death data. Petrino believes that the public should have the right to know these important information.
The Trump administration diverts attention and restarts the economy retrograde under the epidemic
Under such circumstances, the US government is still advancing in a retrograde manner, and an economic restart is underway nationwide.
The well-known American current news media &quot;Politics&quot; pointed out that the United States is likely to be in a &quot;slow and lasting crisis.&quot; Constant death and declining consumer confidence will &quot;bring a fundamental change&quot; to the daily lives of Americans.
&quot;On the occasion of Trump&#39;s re-election campaign, the words to restart the economy are considered to be more beneficial to Trump, while at the same time, polls show that people have lost confidence in the government&#39;s performance in dealing with the epidemic. &quot;Politics&quot; said that in this case, the Trump administration believes that turning people&#39;s attention back to the economic restart is beneficial to re-election. The report quoted an adviser to the Trump campaign as saying: &quot;If people feel that we have recovered from the epidemic and the economy is improving, Trump will be fine.&quot;
But many public health officials are not optimistic about this, and warned that the United States is far from completely eliminating the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. &quot;Politics&quot; quoted a former senior official of the Department of Health and Human Services as saying that the United States should be in a &quot;closed mode&quot; to prevent epidemics in the next 12, 18, and even 24 months. (CCTV reporter Wu Weihong)
Responsible Editor: Van Stern