URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iirczymi9223684.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000044

Date : 2020-04-30 13:47:00
Title : The truth behind the US &quot;investigating China&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original Title: The Truth Behind the US &quot;Investigation of China&quot;
The data released by China is open, transparent, frank and true ... On the contrary, some countries describe the new coronary pneumonia as influenza, which is concealment;
There is now a strange phenomenon. Some politicians are economic or intelligence-based, but when it comes to virus tracing, they are vividly painted ... Is n’t this ridiculous?
We object to putting China on the dock without any evidence, presuming guilt, and then seeking evidence through so-called international investigations;
There must be a basis for conducting international investigations. Why does this survey only target China? … In some countries, there are so many confirmed cases, deaths and spreads. Isn&#39;t there a problem?
I think of Chairman Mao Zedong&#39;s words: who is our enemy and who is our friend? This is the primary issue of revolution. I hope that the United States will find true enemies in the future, and no longer mistake its comrades as opponents;
...
On April 28, Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng was interviewed by Janis Mackey Frayer, a senior reporter from NBC. The following is the text record-
Le: I am very glad to accept your interview. This is my first interview with a foreign media after the outbreak of new coronary pneumonia. I have been working in New York for nearly four years, and I am really sad to see the once bustling Times Square, Broadway, and Fifth Avenue now empty. I would like to take this opportunity to express my deep condolences to the American people, especially the people of New York, who are fighting the epidemic through NBC. Early this morning, I learned from the news that the number of people infected with the New Crown Virus in the United States is close to one million, which is distressing. At the critical moment in the fight against the epidemic, China and the United States should put aside disputes and differences and work together to deal with a common enemy, the new coronavirus. I believe that only through unity and cooperation can we achieve a win-win situation and change the world.
Ma: Next to your opening remarks, my first question is, do you now think that the problem of the epidemic has been politicized?
Le: Unfortunately, some politicians have now greatly politicized the issue of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, which we do not want to see. Under the current situation, we should unite as one, fight the epidemic and overcome the difficulties, instead of blaming each other for political manipulation.
Ma: Now everyone is calling on all parties to increase transparency. Can you elaborate on China&#39;s timeline at the beginning of the fight against the epidemic? From the earliest case of Wuhan CDC to the first case, until the time when Wuhan was closed, what measures did the Chinese government take?
Le: China&#39;s anti-epidemic measures are open, transparent and responsible. China did not conceal any epidemic situation or delay. We have fully announced the timeline of the epidemic report. I would like to emphasize three points: First, on January 3, 2020, China began to regularly inform the World Health Organization and the United States and other countries of the epidemic situation. On the second day after that, the heads of the CDCs in China and the United States communicated. Second, on January 12, China promptly announced the whole genome sequence of the new coronavirus to the world, which provided important prerequisites for the diagnosis, treatment and vaccine research and development of relevant countries. Third, on January 23, Wuhan implemented an unprecedented &quot;closure of the city&quot;, &quot;closing and controlling&quot; a city with a population of more than 10 million. This is an earth-shaking and world-famous action. At that time, the US government should be very clear about the severity of the virus problem, otherwise how could we &quot;close the city&quot;?
Regarding China&#39;s early epidemic response, we have invited a team of WHO experts to visit China, including two American experts. They went to Beijing, Guangdong, Sichuan and Hubei for field research and submitted a comprehensive report, highly appraising China&#39;s response. President Trump spoke highly of Chinese anti-epidemic efforts and transparency when talking on the phone with President Xi Jinping and on his Twitter, and believed that the data provided by China is very helpful to the United States.
Ma: US intelligence agencies have repeatedly questioned the data reported by China. They said that China has adjusted the data for confirmed cases and deaths several times. So has China reported the data low, is there such a suspicion?
Le: The U.S. intelligence agency you mentioned just now knows that their intelligence has caused disaster to the world many times. At that time, they said that Iraq possesses &quot;weapons of mass destruction.&quot;
The data released by China is open, transparent, candid, and true. It has always stood the principle of being responsible for history, being responsible to the people, and being responsible for the deceased. We do n’t have to hide it. The real people behind these data ca n’t hide it anyway. On the contrary, some countries describe the new coronary pneumonia as influenza, which is concealment. At present, China is fully implementing the resumption of production and production. Wuhan has been unsealed. If the figures are not true, do we dare to do so? Our revision of the data reflects a responsible attitude, which is also a common practice internationally. As far as I know, New York has also revised its data not long ago. Questioning the number of confirmed diagnoses and deaths in China is a great disrespect to the 1.4 billion Chinese people, especially millions of medical personnel! These figures just show that we responded appropriately, reflecting &quot;Chinese experience&quot; rather than &quot;Chinese concealment.&quot;
Ma: So can the American people have 100% confidence in the data released by China?
Le: Absolutely.
Ma: There are some speculations about the origin of the virus, and there are various arguments. Does China allow independent international investigation teams to visit China to study the source of the virus?
Le: Some people say that humans have been fighting viruses for thousands of years, but they have never really defeated them. The virus is very cunning. The source of the virus is a serious and complex scientific problem that needs to be studied by scientists and medical experts. But now there is a strange phenomenon, some politicians are engaged in economic or intelligence background, but when it comes to the issue of virus tracing, it is vivid. Obviously, the real experts do not agree that the new crown virus originated in the laboratory, but some politicians insisted that the virus came from the laboratory in Wuhan. Is n’t this ridiculous? A joint statement from authoritative experts was published in the world&#39;s top medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot;, pointing out that the new coronavirus originated from nature, not from artificial synthesis. We must trust experts, not politicians. We should respect science, not conspiracy theory.
Regarding international investigations, we are frank and open, supporting scientific research exchanges among scientists, including summarizing lessons learned. What we object to is to put China on the dock without any evidence, presumably guilty, and then look for evidence through a so-called international investigation. We firmly oppose such a presumption of guilty international investigation. As I mentioned just now, the WHO expert group has visited Wuhan for the first time. The Wuhan Virus Research Institute is also open and has received scientists from various countries including the United States since its establishment. A few days ago, the director of Wuhan Virus Research Institute also accepted an interview with foreign media. He said that Wuhan Virus Research Institute had neither the will nor the ability to produce viruses.
Ma: May I ask if it is possible for China to agree to carry out a science-based investigation in response to external concerns about China ’s transparency, and can such an investigation also help other countries respond to the epidemic more effectively?
Le: There must be a basis for conducting international investigations. Why does this survey only target China? Is there any evidence that China has problems? Why not investigate in other countries? If you want to reflect on it, from a scientific point of view, there are so many confirmed cases, death cases and spread cases in some countries. Is there no problem in this? We are opposed to politicizing international investigations and stigmatizing China.
Ma: We have heard media reports that the origin of the virus may be related to the US military. This statement is widely circulated on Chinese social media, including China&#39;s official social media accounts. Is this the official view of China?
Le: In China, whether it is an official, a public, or an individual, they are angry that some American politicians wantonly slander China because of the epidemic situation. They have the right to express their righteous indignation in various ways, to raise questions and refute. Chinese entrepreneurs, customs officers, diplomats, etc. work hard every day and work overtime to find ways to produce and raise medical supplies for the US against the epidemic. What we have heard and seen is the abuse and vilification of China by some senior US politicians. Think about it, how do we Chinese feel? What&#39;s more, the US Republican Party&#39;s internal campaign guidelines even prompted candidates to directly attack China when asked about the epidemic. This kind of political manipulation has reached the point of being naked and bottomless. The Chinese cannot accept this, and of course they must express their anger.
Ma: If this is the case, are the two countries scrambling for a war to spread false information? Because the United States has said this untrue information about China, so China must fight back this information again? Do Chinese officials allow the media and websites of Chinese embassies and consulates to spread or spread such information?
Le: Do you think an international investigation should be conducted on the fake news? China&#39;s position is clear. Because viruses are cunning, scientists and medical experts should solve the mystery, not politicians.
Ma: You mentioned that you have worked in the United States for a while, how do you think about the way the United States handles the new coronary pneumonia epidemic?
Le: I won&#39;t talk about the domestic affairs of the United States here. I said that there is a suspicion of &quot;interference in internal affairs&quot;. But since you asked me, I would like to make a suggestion to the US government that in the future, the US must find out who is the real enemy. At the end of 2017, the US National Security Strategy Report defined China as a &quot;strategic competitor.&quot; Some people regarded China as an enemy based on it, and opened the door to the whole government to deal with China in all directions. But it is now found that the virus that really poses a threat to the United States and has claimed the lives of more than 56,000 Americans so far is not a virus. China is a comrade and partner of the United States in fighting the epidemic. If the United States responded to non-traditional security challenges such as viruses in 2017 as the main enemy, then the United States and the world might not be what they are today.
I think of Chairman Mao Zedong&#39;s words: who is our enemy and who is our friend? This is the primary issue of revolution. I hope that the United States will find true enemies in the future and stop mistaking comrades in arms.
Ma: Now many Americans, not just American politicians, are thinking about whether China should take some responsibility for the spread of the virus into a global pandemic?
Le: I must first correct that China has not caused an epidemic. The epidemic is a natural disaster. China is also a victim of the virus, not an accomplice of the virus. China is a contributor and collaborator of international anti-epidemic cooperation. The virus is haunted and may appear anywhere. To blame and compensate China is purely absurd political farce. First, there is no basis for the law. There is no international law that supports accountability to the country that first reported the epidemic, and there is no such precedent in history. The second is unreasonable. China was hit by the first wave of the epidemic, paid a huge price and sacrificed to curb the epidemic, won time for global anti-epidemic, accumulated valuable experience, made tremendous contributions, and should be treated fairly rather than blamed. Since it is neither reasonable nor legal to ask China to compensate, what is the difference from blackmail and extortion? Asking China to compensate is nothing more than trying to pass on its own responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the epidemic to China. This kind of &quot;throwing the pan&quot; trick is unpopular and impossible to succeed.
Ma: At present, especially during the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic, the US view of China is becoming increasingly negative. President Trump seems to be increasingly blaming China when he campaigns. In this context, how do you view the prospects of US-China relations?
Le: There are indeed some negative arguments against China in the United States. At the same time, many people of insight are calling on China and the United States to strengthen cooperation and oppose &quot;decoupling&quot; and &quot;new cold war.&quot; We always believe that it is impossible to use one election to define and deal with such an important set of relations between major powers, let alone to &quot;dump the pot&quot; for the general election, undermine the cooperation between the two countries, and cause the two peoples to oppose each other. This is extremely short-sighted and irresponsible. No matter how great the contradiction between China and the United States is, it is no greater than the well-being of the two peoples and the pursuit of a better future. China and the United States can cooperate. The United States proposes that &quot;Let the United States be great again&quot;, and China wants to achieve the goal of &quot;great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.&quot; These two historical processes can completely go side by side, and China and the United States can achieve each other and achieve common &quot;greatness.&quot; We must have this wisdom and faith. Never be taken by extreme forces in the wrong direction or in the wrong rhythm, and the future and destiny of the peoples of both countries will be lost.
Regarding the next step in the development of Sino-US relations, I believe that the two sides must first implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state and jointly promote Sino-US relations based on coordination, cooperation and stability. Specifically speaking, &quot;three majors&quot; and &quot;three majors&quot; are required. First, it is necessary to maintain regular communication between the leaders of the two countries and dialogue and coordination between the relevant departments of the two countries; second, to deepen practical cooperation between the two parties in various fields; The &quot;three nos&quot; is not to stigmatize China and politicize the epidemic; do not artificially disrupt or interfere with the overall situation of cooperation between the two countries; and do not use the epidemic to engage in zero-sum competition.
Ma: President Trump announced the suspension of financial support for the World Health Organization. This is largely because WHO and China are getting closer. What&#39;s China&#39;s response?
Le: WHO has performed its responsibilities well, and it has been very professional, pragmatic and efficient. It is not centered on any country, but is centered on human health and life, and is widely praised and appreciated by the international community. Except for the United States, I have not heard of any country ’s leaders or international organizations who are dissatisfied with WHO. It is unreasonable for the United States to suspend funding to WHO. At a critical moment in the current epidemic-resistant war, the United States should concentrate its efforts on fighting against the epidemic, rather than aiming artillery at WHO, an organization that coordinates the international fight against epidemic disease. In doing so, the US government actually stands on the opposite side of the world, and it will also cause serious interference and destruction to WHO&#39;s efforts to coordinate global anti-epidemic actions and save lives, especially the fight against epidemic in developing countries such as Africa. I don&#39;t know what logic the US side follows.
Ma: Against the backdrop of the global spread of the epidemic, is China satisfied with its national anti-epidemic efforts in the past few months?
Le: In the past few months, China has gone through a very difficult period. We have successfully contained the epidemic and accumulated a lot of experience: First, people-oriented and life-oriented. In order to save lives, we do not consider costs, at all costs, and do not even consider economic losses. No one is gone, what&#39;s the use of money? We always put saving lives first. In Wuhan, we have even saved more than 10 people over 100 years old.
The second is mutual help. One side is in trouble, and the other side supports. Wuhan was the epicenter of the epidemic. More than 40,000 medical personnel were gathered across the country to support Wuhan. My hometown, Jiangsu Province, went to more than 2,800 medical personnel. There is a nurse named Gan Ruyi in a hospital in Wuhan. During the Spring Festival, she returned to her hometown 300 km away to visit relatives. When she learned that Wuhan&#39;s &quot;closing city&quot; needed medical staff, she rushed to Wuhan to fight. Because there was no traffic at the time, the girl in her 20s, riding a bicycle and walking, walked more than 300 kilometers in 4 days and 3 nights. This story has moved me so far.
The third is to actively carry out international cooperation. We are providing assistance to the world and we have also received international assistance. China provides the world with various types of astronomical protective materials, including more than 20 billion masks, and billions of protective clothing and goggles.
We have also learned a lot from this epidemic prevention and control. In terms of medical care, we have adopted measures such as &quot;four early and four concentrated&quot;, integrated Chinese and Western medicine, and joint prevention and control to effectively control the epidemic and save lives, with a cure rate of 93.5%. Now that we have started resuming production, we should say that we have benefited from these effective measures.
Of course, this epidemic also exposed some of our shortcomings. For example, in the face of this unprecedented epidemic, our medical experts and materials have insufficient strategic reserves, the infrastructure construction of grass-roots prevention and control institutions has lagging behind, the independent research and development capabilities of some major disease treatment drugs are weak, the popularity of public health education and people&#39;s awareness of prevention Not strong enough, etc. Therefore, we must continue to improve our work, constantly improve the major epidemic prevention and control systems and mechanisms, and improve the national public health emergency management system.
Mankind grew up and developed in the fight against various diseases and disasters. Smallpox, black death, Ebola, H1N1 flu, etc., each major epidemic has left valuable experience and lessons for humans.
Ma: There have been criticisms from around the world that China responded slowly to the epidemic in the beginning, especially when it was silent about the &quot;whistleblower&quot;, and the Chinese response was not timely enough after their voice. How does China convince the international community that it has learned a lesson from the epidemic response?
Le: I think compared with some countries, China&#39;s response is quite rapid, especially considering that we are the first wave of the epidemic. I can give you an example. There was only one case in the United States when Wuhan was closed on January 23. When the United States declared a state of emergency on March 13, more than 1,600 cases were diagnosed. There are many American experts in WHO, and the US government is fully aware of the epidemic situation. But this period is more than 50 days apart, can this blame China&#39;s slow response? Where did the time go?
Ma: The last topic is about the health of Chairman Kim Jong-un of the Workers ’Party of Korea. Now the media has some reports on this. Considering that China and North Korea have very close relations, how do you respond?
Le: I have no news to provide. I don&#39;t know where the so-called news you said originated from. In my opinion, the media should still be cautious and serious when it comes to reports about the top leaders of a country.
Editor in charge: Zhang Di