URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1041/nganh-y-te-du-phong-60-nam-doi-moi-va-phat-trien
ID : VCDC2020050500005

Date : 2016-12-07 00:00:00
Title : Preventive medicine is 60 years of innovation and development
Ariticle : 





Preventive medicine is 60 years of innovation and development
12/07/2016


In the afternoon of December 5, 2016, the Ministry of Health solemnly celebrated the 60th anniversary of Vietnam Preventive Medicine (1956-2016).

Attending the ceremony were Mr. Vu Duc Dam, Member of the Party Central Executive Committee, Deputy Prime Minister; comrade Tran Thi Trung Chien, former Member of the Party Central Executive Committee, former Minister of Health; comrade Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, Minister of Health; Mr. Lokky Wai, WHO Chief Representative in Viet Nam; with leaders and former leaders of the Ministry of Health; leaders of preventive medicine over the years; representatives of provincial Health Departments, preventive medicine centers; The late GS&#39;s family. Dang Van Ngu; a large number of health sector officials in the preventive medicine sector; Central news agency Hanoi and Hanoi attended and reported for this solemn ceremony.


 

On behalf of the Party and State leaders, Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam presented
medal
Independent Second Class for Preventive Medicine Department.


The process of development of preventive medicine was marked by an important milestone: on April 12, 1956, the Ministry of Health issued Decree No. 333 / BYT-ND establishing the Prevention Department on the basis of separation from the Department. Disease prevention and treatment, tasked to assist the Ministry to lead the epidemic prevention and control work. Over the past 60 years, Vietnam&#39;s preventive medicine system has developed strongly, bringing the country&#39;s medicine to the advanced and modern medical level of the world. Achievement of preventive medicine in Vietnam in particular has been achieved in preventive medicine, which is typical of eradicating smallpox, polio, eliminating neonatal tetanus, and preventing new dangerous pandemics. Floating, recognized by the World Health Organization as the first country in the world to successfully control the SARS epidemic, is a bright spot in HIV / AIDS prevention.

 


Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam spoke at the Celebration


Speaking at the Ceremony, Minister of Health Nguyen Thi Kim Tien said: With the determination, continuous efforts of generations, many epidemics have been eradicated, eradicated and controlled: Vietnam has eradicate smallpox in 1978, eradicate polio in 2000, eliminate neonatal tetanus by 2005; Many dangerous epidemics have been controlled and repelled such as cholera, plague, malaria .... Vietnam has also successfully controlled many emerging diseases; In particular, Vietnam was honored to be recognized by the World Health Organization as the first country in the world to successfully control the SARS pandemic after 45 days of horrific disease prevention. At the same time, it has also proactively prevented epidemics, not to enter Vietnam while countries in the region affected by influenza A (H7N9), MERS-CoV, Ebola ... This success has been Party, State. highly appreciate and improve the reputation of Vietnam&#39;s health sector in the world. Vietnam has met the basic requirements for implementing the International Health Regulations and has been recognized by the World Health Organization as a competent country in surveillance, prevention, early warning and prompt response. emerging diseases and other public health events. Vietnam has also produced 10/12 types of vaccines and was recognized by the World Health Organization as Vietnam&#39;s vaccine management agency to meet NRA international standards. The task of ensuring food safety is increasing. Viet Nam is internationally recognized as one of the top 10 countries in the implementation of the MDGs on health, especially in reducing maternal and infant mortality, and reducing Malnutrition rate, malaria incidence and HIV / AIDS prevention.


On behalf of the Party and State leaders, Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam presented
medal
Independent Second Class for Preventive Medicine Department
.


Speaking at the ceremony, Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam acknowledged the appreciation of the development of preventive medicine. The Deputy Prime Minister expressed his gratitude to the heroic martyr, Professor Dang Van Ngu and generations of preventive medicine officials who did not manage hardship and silent sacrifices for the cause of national construction and defense as well as their faces. Battle against disease.

 


Assoc.Prof.Dr. Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, Minister of Health, spoke at the celebration


Deputy Prime Minister also said that in the context of dangerous and emerging epidemics, unexplained illnesses that constantly appear in the world are at risk of entering our country; The burden of non-communicable diseases remains high, increasingly difficult to control due to many objective as well as subjective factors such as travel, urbanization, environmental pollution, climate change. .continue to be challenges for the health sector in general and the preventive medicine system in particular.


The Deputy Prime Minister suggested that the health sector needs to fully revise the system of preventive medicine organization compared with other countries from routine activities to the way of operating and connecting the network of epidemic control centers. The disease also clearly analyzes the advantages and disadvantages of current preventive medicine. According to the Deputy Prime Minister, “not only inadequacy of preventive medicine, but the whole health sector needs to look straight at the limitations and difficulties for comprehensive and comprehensive innovation in order to make the best use of the physical infrastructure system, human resources for both preventive and curative care facilities in public and non-public establishments. From medicine, doctors to doctors, the whole society, every people, every movement to practice health at the grassroots level in preventive medicine work ”.


Deputy Prime Minister believes to promote the glorious 60-year tradition, with a high sense of responsibility and solidarity, enthusiasm for innovation, and dynamism in creating certain preventive medicine systems in particular and the health sector. in general, will continue to develop and make more and more important contributions to the care and protection of the people&#39;s health.


On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Preventive Medicine industry, the President awarded the Second Independence Medal to the Preventive Medicine Department of the Ministry of Health. Also at the ceremony, the Ministry of Health retrospectively awarded the first Dang Dang Ngu Award in 2016 to 11 individuals and presented this award to 20 collectives and 88 other individuals.


Some photos at the ceremony



Minister Nguyen Thi Kim Tien and Deputy Minister Nguyen Thanh Long presented Dang Van Ngu award to collectives and individuals with achievements in looking after preventive medicine.

 

Editorial Board Website - Preventive Medicine Department, Ministry of Health

(Source: moh.gov.vn)




 



