URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1031/vi-rut-zika-noi-lo-tu-cac-khu-nha-tro-cua-cong-nhan
ID : VCDC2020050500013

Date : 2016-11-02 00:00:00
Title : Zika virus - Worry from workers&#39; boarding houses
Ariticle : 





Zika virus - Worry from workers&#39; boarding houses
11/02/2016
 
Faced with the complicated course of the disease caused by Zika virus, many local workers are concerned about the possibility of infection. Because most of the workers live in humid boarding houses, do not ensure environmental sanitation, easy to produce mosquitoes; meanwhile, workers&#39; knowledge about prevention and awareness about this disease is still limited ...
 

To date, November 1, 2016, the country has recorded 23 cases positive for Zika virus, the Ministry of Health confirmed cases of babies in Dak Lak with microcephaly caused mostly from Zika virus. Only on 10/31/2016, TP. Ho Chi Minh City has recorded 12 more cases of Zika virus, bringing the total number of Zika virus cases in Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh to 17 cases. All cases were detected through the disease surveillance system provided by the City Health Department. Ho Chi Minh deployment.

 

On October 31, 2016, Department of Preventive Medicine, Ministry of Health had an emergency meeting with the Department of Health of Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh City, Pasteur Institute TP. Ho Chi Minh. The content of the meeting was to find solutions to limit the spread of Zika virus. Mr. Tran Dac Phu - Director of Department of Preventive Medicine requested TP. Ho Chi Minh urgently seeks specific measures to protect pregnant women during this period.

 

Before that, City People&#39;s Committee. Ho Chi Minh also signed a decision to announce the Zika virus outbreak at the commune-ward level. Along with the decision to announce the epidemic, the City People&#39;s Committee requires relevant departments and localities to strengthen the prevention and control measures and units must manage, monitor and closely monitor the situation. Zika virus disease in the city area.

 

Binh Duong province has just recorded 1 case of Zika virus infection and the People&#39;s Committee of Binh Duong province has also decided to announce the outbreak of commune and ward scale in Binh Chuan ward, Thuan An town, Binh Duong province. Earlier, in Long An also recorded 1 case, Phu Yen (1 case), Khanh Hoa - Nha Trang (1 case), Dak Lak (1 case), Tra Vinh (1 case).

 

With complicated developments, the Ministry of Health has raised the alert level for Zika virus outbreak. The health sector has carried out a communication campaign to people in areas where there has been a dengue outbreak (Zika virus has the same mosquito-borne host ...), to people who have gone to an epidemic area and Especially for women of reproductive age.

 

At TP. Ho Chi Minh, Dr. Nguyen Huu Hung - Deputy Director of Department of Health of Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh said, the disease surveillance by Zika virus is done quite well at health facilities. Suspected cases need to be taken for blood and tested to detect disease - this is an effective way to monitor the epidemic in recent years. In fact, cases were positive for Zika virus in HCMC. Ho Chi Minh City were discovered from medical examination and treatment facilities.

 

The hostel is sleazy, damp, and workers are worried about Zika virus
 

When the Ministry of Health raised the alert level for Zika virus, many people, especially workers, were also worried about the virus. Noting that in some areas with a large concentration of workers in Di An, Thuan An (Binh Duong), many workers said that they were quite worried when the inn was close, the corrugated iron roof, the floor was low, especially now. Now it&#39;s the rainy season, many areas are often flooded. Nga, who lives on Binh Duong 1 Street (Di An, Binh Duong), doesn&#39;t hide her worries when talking about Zika virus. She and her husband are preparing to have children, so she is more worried.

 

&quot;Depending on your ability, do whatever you can&quot; - she answered when asked about how to prevent and fight Zika virus. “Keep your house clean, your clothes and clothes neatly arranged. Water containers that can make room for mosquito breeding must be removed. Night to sleep mosquito nets. I must protect myself first ”- Ms. Nga shared.

 

At TP. In Ho Chi Minh City, a number of worker inns in suburban areas, especially near canals, open fields, trees, garbage are likely to generate larvae and mosquitoes, so workers are worried about the possibility of virus infection. Zika.

 

&quot;Workers often busy with work, coming home from work quite tired so they buried their heads in to sleep, but did not pay attention to clean up the area where they live&quot; - Mrs. Nguyen Thi Van and her mother, living on Tran Thanh Mai Street ( Binh Tan District, Ho Chi Minh City). Her mother and her daughter live in a 12m2 room, because she has a small child, she takes care of cleaning the house but “I can&#39;t do all for the whole house alone. Garbage is still thrown out, the innkeeper comes yelling at them to tidy up. I reminded them when they said it was good. ”

 

And Mr. Hung, who spent two years at the Tan Tao A ward inn (Binh Tan), reflected: “The corrugated iron roofing, corrugated iron walls, fortunate house floor have few cement plasterings ... The rain was leaking, the water flooded, damp ... So how to keep it clean. With the information about Zika virus being complicated, we expect the government to spray down mosquito repellent and mosquito larvae so that workers and people here can be assured ”- Mr. Hung said.

 

Meanwhile, in some boarding houses, landlords and workers take the initiative in preventing and fighting epidemics in their own way. Ms. Nguyen Thi Thanh, landlord, Head of self-governing group of Ap Dong, Thoi Tam Thon commune, Hoc Mon district, Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh City said that with more than 100 rooms and nearly 300 staying workers, keeping the sanitation must be paid more attention so as not to cause diseases. Usually, on Sundays, workers clean the common yard area of the boarding house.

 

“I heard the media talk about the Zika virus, which is quite dangerous. Vietnam has already appeared, in Hoc Mon area, I have not heard about this virus, but I still remind my children to prevent mosquitoes, not to keep ponds, stagnant water, clothes neatly exposed ”- Ms. Thanh share.
 


Lowland workers&#39; dormitories are easy to transmit mosquitoes (Artwork)

 

Ms. Vo Thi My, a resident in Quarter 1, Linh Xuan Ward, Thu Duc District, Ho Chi Minh City Ho Chi Minh, said: “I have heard information about Zika virus through the radio. I&#39;m pregnant so I&#39;m scared. Usually, when there is a dengue epidemic, the government and the district preventive medicine center will spray the drugs, but with Zika virus disease is very dangerous, we have to be self-aware to keep hygiene, clear all places where mosquitoes You can stay around the inn ... ”.

 

Many companies also plan to propagate and help workers
 

In order to support Zika virus prevention and control workers, many companies also plan to propagate and help workers understand the harmful effects of the disease to actively prevent. Mr. Dinh Van Giai - Chairman of Trade Union of Toan Thang Co., Ltd (Binh Chieu Industrial Park, Thu Duc District, Ho Chi Minh City) said that most of the company&#39;s workers are lodging, the characteristics of the inns In the suburban area, the humidity is low, so the workers must pay more attention to hygiene in their place. “As a company specializing in food, ensuring hygiene is a prerequisite, absolutely no animals such as flies, mosquitoes, cockroaches, mice ... have shelter. At the company, the workers are completely secure but to pay attention to the inn, &quot;- Mr. Giai said.

 

In order to have propaganda knowledge to help workers better understand Zika, he and the union officials in the executive committee of the company actively learn about the mechanism of disease, expression, harm, how to prevent disease due to Zika virus caused. “If you take the initiative in preventing disease, you must show you the harmful effects of the disease. However, propaganda does not let you be afraid but rather you know how to prevent it. The executive committee of the trade union is choosing the appropriate plan to propagate effectively, paying special attention to female workers of reproductive age ”- Mr. Giai said.

 

As a company organized for workers in a residential area, located on the premises of the factory, the company ensures the hygiene and safety and proactively prevents diseases, which is managed by the Board of Directors of Tra Hung Phat Co., Ltd. (Cu Chi district). , Ho Chi Minh City) pay special attention.

 

Ms. Nguyen Thi Tra Giang - Assistant director of the Company, said that not only when there is information about Zika outbreak, the company will only do the hygienic work or propagandize the brothers and sisters of the hygienic workers but “this is daily routine. ” The group of self-governing workers at the meeting area, reminding the rooms that have not paid attention to hygiene, every week the whole hotel will work together to clean and clean, the board of directors of the company actively cooperates with the Center for Health rooms for periodic spraying, or spraying when staying in the area showing any illness, guide you how to prevent ...

 

“The company is also equipped with wifi, encouraging workers and employees to update social information, entertainment, when Zika virus disease occurs, please note that you read related information, so that each person can take the initiative. prevent. And please note, if you have any doubts about your health, you need to immediately inform the company and trade union for direction to support, ensure health and safety for you ”- Ms. Giang said.

 

Currently, there is no vaccine to prevent Zika virus and no treatment yet. Therefore, to prevent disease, the Ministry of Health recommends that pregnant women and women planning to become pregnant should not go to the epidemic area when it is not really necessary. Pregnant women, especially pregnant in the first 3 months, living or having ever been to an epidemic area with fever or rash and having at least one of the symptoms of muscle / joint pain, conjunctivitis need to go to health facilities for examination and counseling. Besides, it is necessary to actively prevent and control diseases by eliminating mosquitoes and mosquito larvae.

 

According to experts from the World Health Organization, 80% of those infected with Zika have no symptoms. Symptomatic cases usually present in a mild form, such as fever and rash, in addition to causing muscle and joint pain, headache, post-ocular pain and conjunctivitis (itching, redness of the eyes). Infection with Zika virus produces only minor symptoms, but its sequelae are unpredictable. In addition to being dangerous for pregnant women and causing microcephaly, recent studies have linked the Zika virus to Guillain-Barré syndrome, a condition where the immune system attacks itself. nerve after virus infection, causing muscle weakness and paralysis.

 

Editorial Board Website - Preventive Medicine Department, Ministry of Health
(Source:
http://laodong.com.vn/phong-su/virus-zika-noi-lo-tu-cac-khu-nha-tro-cua-cong-nhan-606409.bld
)
 


 




