URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1040/chu-tich-nuoc-gap-mat-cac-dai-bieu-tieu-bieu-trong-nganh-y-te-du-phong-nhan-ky-niem-60-nam-nganh-y-te-du-phong
ID : VCDC2020050500006

Date : 2016-12-07 00:00:00
Title : The President met with typical representatives in Preventive Medicine in celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Preventive Medicine industry
Ariticle : 





The President met with typical representatives in Preventive Medicine in celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Preventive Medicine industry
12/07/2016

On December 5, 2016, at the Presidential Palace, President Tran Dai Quang had a meeting with typical health officials and made great contributions to preventive medicine.


Attending the meeting were Assoc. Tran Thi Trung Chien, former Minister of Health; Assoc.Prof.Dr. Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, Minister of Health; current deputy ministers; Representatives of Departments / Departments / Institutes / Ministry Offices of Ministry of Health with nearly 200 delegates who are health workers working in preventive medicine throughout the country.
 


President Tran Dai Quang speaks at the meeting
 

On behalf of the delegates attending the meeting, Assoc. Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, Minister of Health, has reported achievements in the 60 years of preventive medicine. Accordingly, the preventive medicine industry has developed comprehensively from the central to local levels, including state management agencies, intensive research institutes at the central level as well as the system of preventive medicine units. at the local. In recent years, many scientific researches on improving people&#39;s health, preventing and controlling epidemics have been implemented and applied in practice. Up to now, Vietnam has produced 10/12 types of vaccines in the expanded immunization program and is capable of testing emerging diseases, currently circulating or at-risk diseases. Vietnam is a country highly appreciated by the World Health Organization for achieving the MDGs on reducing malnutrition and malaria; maintain payment results and eliminate and control a number of dangerous epidemics, such as smallpox, polio and neonatal tetanus; actively control and repel many other emerging and emerging epidemics, such as cholera, plague, malaria, tuberculosis, HIV / AIDS ...


Assoc.Prof.Dr. Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, Minister of Health, reported the preventive medicine work at the meeting
 

Speaking at the meeting, on behalf of the Party and State leaders, President Tran Dai Quang warmly congratulated and praised the achievements and great contributions that generations of cadres, civil servants and officials , preventive medicine workers nationwide have achieved in recent years. The President stated: In the process of integration and development, the work of ensuring food hygiene and safety is promoted; health care for workers, medical waste management has been strengthened; activities respond to patriotic sanitation movement, improve the health of people to develop widely; The training of preventive medicine human resources has been renewed towards intensive orientation, approaching international trends, giving priority to practice, devoting more time to field work and interdisciplinary nature. At the same time, international cooperation activities are strengthened, deepened and actively participated in action programs of the World and Regional Health Organization, contributing to ensuring global health security and improve the role and position of Vietnam&#39;s health sector in the international arena. In this context, the contingent of cadres, civil servants, public servants and employees of the health sector in general and preventive medicine in particular needs to continue to be vigorous, active, flexible and creative. strive to perform well the assigned functions and tasks.


President Tran Dai Quang presents gifts to former Minister of Health Tran Thi Trung Chien


President Tran Dai Quang suggested that the health sector in general and preventive medicine in particular need to promote the set results, solidarity, consensus, consensus, unanimity, and strong and proactive innovation. , flexible and creative; strive to perform well the assigned functions and tasks, in which focus on implementing a number of key tasks.


President Tran Dai Quang presents gifts to Minister Nguyen Thi Kim Tien
 

(1) Firmly grasping the situation, promptly detecting dangerous and emerging epidemics, proactively advising the Party and the State on appropriate undertakings and solutions. Reviewing and evaluating the implementation of guidelines, policies and laws on preventive medicine, thereby providing scientific evidence for the completion of policies and laws related to health care. comprehensively for the people associated with the prevention of risk factors to health, ensuring the sustainable development of the country. To well implement the principle of being people-centered, preventing and controlling infectious and non-communicable diseases and managing people&#39;s health in the community. Promote the movement of patriotic hygiene, disease prevention and physical training and sports. Carry out synchronous solutions of propagation, dissemination and awareness raising for people about disease prevention, self-protection measures and health promotion.


(2) Continue to improve the institution, improve the capacity and effectiveness of executive guidance; promote comprehensive restructuring of preventive medicine units at all levels towards streamlining, efficient use of existing resources, drastic and effective implementation according to the roadmap. To pay attention to training and building a contingent of preventive medicine workers who are capable, skilled, with good professional qualifications and good ethics, capable of coping with dangerous and emerging epidemics. such as research and application of advanced preventive measures.


(3) Promote scientific and technical research and technology development capable of identifying and discovering new and dangerous pathogens as well as developing vaccine production technology, ensuring security on vaccines in disease prevention for people nationwide. Strongly implement measures to control hygiene, food safety, medical waste management, protect occupational health of workers, prevent and control non-communicable diseases. Pay attention to health care for mothers, children, the elderly, improve school hygiene and injury prevention. Close coordination between military and civilian medicine in the field of preventive medicine, especially in remote, border and island areas.

(4) Mobilizing and effectively using resources, researching and applying operating models with the contribution of society and people. Diversify types of health insurance, focusing on community-based forms. Propagate, educate for all people to voluntarily participate in health insurance.


(5) Actively expand international cooperation, closely coordinate with the World Health Organization, other countries and international organizations in the field of preventive medicine. Strengthen information exchange, experience sharing and island cooperation to create preventive health workers as well as take advantage of the support of modern equipment and facilities of countries and international organizations. Continue to actively participate in the implementation of the World Health Regulations and the Global Health Security Partnership Program to proactively deal with dangerous, emerging infectious diseases and public health events. towards a safer world before the epidemic, enhancing the role and position of Vietnam&#39;s health sector in the international arena.


The President affirmed that the Party, State and people always pay special attention, take care of and build the health sector in general and preventive medicine in particular. The President believed and desired that the health sector in general and preventive medicine in particular will continue to make great contributions to the care and protection of the people&#39;s health.

 

Editorial Board Website - Preventive Medicine Department, Ministry of Health

(Source: moh.gov.vn)




 




