URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1024/thong-tin-ve-02-truong-hop-cong-dan-viet-nam-nhiem-vi-rut-zika-tai-tp-ho-chi-minh
ID : VCDC2020050500016

Date : 2016-10-15 00:00:00
Title : Information about 02 cases of Vietnamese citizens infected with Zika virus in Ho Chi Minh City Ho Chi Minh
Ariticle : 





Information about 02 cases of Vietnamese citizens infected with Zika virus in Ho Chi Minh City Ho Chi Minh
10/15/2016

     
According to the report of the Pasteur Institute TP. Ho Chi Minh City, two more new cases were discovered in the week Zika virus in the city. Ho Chi Minh:
 

The first case is a 22-year-old female patient living in District 2, HCMC. Chi Minh. Onset with rash symptoms, accompanied by fever, hand joint pain, conjunctivitis. Patients come to the clinic and take a sample to be tested. Positive result for Zika virus. The patient is now stable and monitored at home.

The second case is a 43 year old female living in District 12, HCMC. Ho Chi Minh City, onset with papular rash symptoms, fever 39
0
C, accompanied by muscle pain. The patient visited a hospital, suspected Zika virus infection and was sampled for testing. Positive result for Zika virus. The patient has no history of traveling or contacting the sick person. The patient is now stable and monitored at home.

To date, the country has recorded 07 cases of Zika virus infection in Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh (04), Binh Duong (01), Khanh Hoa (01) and Phu Yen (01). Vietnam is a country that has recognized the circulation of Zika virus, in the near future the epidemic surveillance system may continue to detect cases of Zika virus infection in the community.

In order to protect the health of the people and the community from Zika virus disease, the Ministry of Health continues to implement drastically preventive measures such as strengthening the operation of the Office of Emergency Response (EOC), guide, supervise, take test samples, detect early, timely handle, promote communication ...; organize campaigns to kill mosquitoes and mosquito larvae to prevent Zika virus disease and dengue fever in 63 provinces and cities across the country. The objective of the campaign is to call on every citizen, family and community as well as departments, unions and organizations to uphold the role and responsibility in actively implementing measures to prevent and control diseases and epidemics. health for yourself, your family and the community. The Ministry of Health recommends that people, especially pregnant women and women planning to become pregnant, follow the recommendations of the Ministry of Health to prevent disease transmission to individuals and the community.

 

Department of Preventive Medicine - Ministry of Health




