URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1028/thong-bao-truong-hop-tre-mac-chung-dau-nho-nghi-lien-quan-voi-vi-rut-zika-dau-tien-tai-viet-nam
ID : VCDC2020050500014

Date : 2016-10-30 00:00:00
Title : NOTICE: The first case of suspected microcephaly associated with Zika virus in Vietnam
Ariticle : 





NOTICE: The first case of suspected microcephaly associated with Zika virus in Vietnam
10/30/2016

 

As informed, immediately after receiving the report of the first positive test result for Zika virus of cases of children with microcephaly in Krong Buk district, Dak Lak province, on October 17, 2016, The Ministry of Health held an emergency meeting with the Office of Emergency Response to Epidemics (EOC) to review and assess the situation of Zika virus disease. The Ministry of Health subsequently announced an increase in the alert level for Zika virus disease in response to the new situation. Following October 18, 2016, the Ministry of Health mission went on a field trip to investigate epidemiological factors, take a second test sample of children and those living with or living close to patients to advance. implement measures to determine the cause.

The second test result on October 21, 2016 continued to detect IgM antibody specific for Zika virus and neutralizing antibody for Zika virus in the serum sample of the child and the mother as well as in the serum sample of people living in the same house (father, grandmother, uncle and foster sister), other cases living outside the home with negative test results. Through epidemiological investigation shows that only the mother with clinical manifestations of the disease at 3 months of pregnancy. There are no known risk factors for microcephaly from mothers such as infections, exposure to toxic chemicals, smoking, and alcoholism.

After the second test result, on October 26, 2016, the Ministry of Health collaborated with the Office of the World Health Organization (WHO) in Vietnam and related agencies to organize an online meeting. with the Regional WHO Office in Manila, Philippines and the Thailand WHO Office to identify the cause of a child with microcephaly.
 
Through clinical review process, epidemiological factors, tests, brain tomography results and based on WHO experience as well as identifying 02 cases of microcephaly. Zika in Thailand, the Conference came to the conclusion:
This is the case of children with symptoms of congenital malformations with microcephaly, most likely suspected in relation to Zika virus and also the first case in Vietnam.
 
Currently, Zika virus has been circulating in Vietnam, before the situation of children with small head signs suspected to be related to Zika virus, the Ministry of Health recommends:
- Women who are pregnant and planning to become pregnant should not go to the epidemic area when it is not really needed. In case you have to go to an infected area, you need to carefully study the disease information and medical conditions, and apply measures to prevent mosquito bites to avoid transmission of Zika virus such as using Use mosquito repellent, wear long clothing, and sleep nets even during the day.

- Pregnant women, especially pregnant women with rash and at least one of the symptoms of fever, muscle / joint pain, eye conjunctivitis, need to seek medical attention in the first 3 months. timely consultation.

- Pregnant women should not be too worried, perform regular and periodic antenatal checkups and only conduct tests to detect Zika virus infection when there are symptoms of suspected disease and counseling, indications of muscles medical authorities.

- The entire population actively participates in the campaign to kill mosquitoes, larvae / larvae to prevent Zika virus disease, dengue fever 2nd according to the Minister of Health&#39;s Directive. Actively inspect water containers, remove waste materials to prevent mosquitoes from spreading into egg laying, reproduction and development; proactively and actively implement disease prevention measures under the guidance of the Ministry of Health.
 
For detailed information, refer to the website of the Department of Preventive Medicine:
vncdc.gov.vn
and the Ministry of Health:
moh.gov.vn
.
 

Department of Preventive Medicine, Ministry of Health




