URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1032/he-thong-chan-doan-truoc-sinh-giup-phat-hien-som-di-tat-thai-nhi-do-zika
ID : VCDC2020050500012

Date : 2016-11-05 00:00:00
Title : The prenatal diagnosis system helps to detect early fetal defects caused by Zika
Ariticle : 





The prenatal diagnosis system helps to detect early fetal defects caused by Zika
11/5/2016

On November 3, at the EOC Vietnam Office, there was a meeting to discuss the response to Zika virus, chaired by Deputy Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long.


Photo: Prof. Dr. Nguyen Thanh Long, Deputy Minister of Health speaks at the meeting

The meeting was attended by Departments, Institutes, Institutes under the Ministry of Health, World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. According to the report at the meeting, the situation of Zika virus disease is still complicated. There have been 73 countries and territories recorded cases of Zika infection, including 12 countries recorded cases of human-to-human infections such as the US, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, ... In countries Southeast Asia, also noted the circulation of Zika virus in 7/10 countries, especially in some countries such as Singapore (442 cases), Thailand (over 200 cases), Philippines, Japan. , Indonesia, Malaysia; the cases are mainly singular and do not break out into a major epidemic. WHO warns that Zika epidemic is showing signs of spreading in Asia and is likely to continue to record cases of Zika virus infection due to the wide distribution of disease vectors in the region, increasing exchanges and travel. Calendar to and from countries with low epidemic and population immunity.

In Vietnam, Zika has become a circulating disease, as of November 5, 2016, there were 36 positive cases with Zika virus in Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh City (29), Dak Lak (02), Binh Duong (02), Khanh Hoa (01), Phu Yen (01) and Long An (01). The number of Zika infections in Ho Chi Minh City has increased in recent years as the health sector is intensifying its surveillance. During monitoring, patients infected with Zika almost all have very mild symptoms, so not all cases go to the hospital for examination.

Based on the situation and epidemiological characteristics of the disease, the risk of epidemic may continue to record more new cases and possibly a major outbreak in the community if not actively implementing preventive measures. . In this context, this EOC Office meeting aims to enhance the prevention, response to epidemics, early detection of cases, especially for pregnant women, to handle promptly. to spread the epidemic, minimizing complications caused by the disease.

The current concern of the Ministry of Health in the prevention of Zika epidemic is ensuring the health of pregnant women, preventing and minimizing the risk of children suffering from microcephaly due to Zika virus. Recently the latest case of microcephaly has been detected in Dak Lak, so new cases may be recorded in the near future. Assoc.Prof.Dr. Tran Danh Cuong, Deputy Director of the National Hospital of Obstetrics and Gynecology said, “Vietnam has a prenatal diagnostic system that requires women to have 3 ultrasounds during pregnancy: 12 weeks, 22 weeks and 32 weeks. If you follow these basic guidelines, make sure pregnant women will be monitored by the doctor, early detection of cases of small heads. For newborns, the measurement of small head size is very simple such as observing the morphology of the head, cranial deformation, magnetic resonance imaging to know the brain structure, ... Therefore, in addition to protecting their own health by preventing mosquito bites, pregnant women go to the clinic 28 weeks in advance to detect cases of fetal deformities is a right of every person. ”

Assoc.Prof.Dr. Tran Danh Cuong also shared that: “It is not difficult for pregnant women to have a prenatal check-up, but the challenge for doctors to detect early cases is because the women&#39;s psychology has not been aware of the importance of time. score, only when the new facility, did not follow the appointment, or did not determine the right week of the fetus before the examination &quot;. Pregnant women should also make an appointment with the nearest health facility for specific monitoring of the fetus and prevention of all risks. However, the proportion of mothers infected with Zika giving birth to a small child is very low, only 1-10%.

At the meeting, leaders and experts from Departments, Institutes, Institutes, WHO, US CDC all came to unanimously implement and implement Zika disease outbreaks currently circulating in Vietnam. In the context of the epidemic situation that has been identified as circulating in our country, the issue of prevention to limit spread is extremely important, especially for pregnant mothers.


In order to proactively prevent Zika virus disease, the Ministry of Health recommends that people take the following measures:

- People, especially pregnant women, need to proactively monitor health, if any of the suspected manifestations of the disease go to health facilities for examination, counseling and treatment.
     




Manifestations to recognize Zika:
- Mild fever of 37.8-38.5 degrees C, fatigue, rash rash on the skin, pain in the small joints in the hands and feet.
- Conjunctival hyperemia, myalgia, headache, sore eyes, and weakness.
- A small number of patients may have abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, mucosal ulcers or itching.




   
- Actively prevent mosquito bites, kill mosquitoes, larvae (larvae toss):

• Prevention of mosquito bites:
sleep nets, wear long clothing even during the day, use repellent cream, incense.

• Mosquito killer:
Using a mosquito net to catch mosquitoes, spraying chemicals to kill mosquitoes; actively coordinating with the health sector in spraying of epidemic prevention and control chemicals.

• Remove larvae (pupae):
tightly cover domestic water containers, drop fish into large water containers, wash small and medium water containers; collect items, turn over tools that do not contain water; Change the vase / vase water, add salt or oil to the cupboard.

- Women who are delayed for 7-10 days should take the initiative to go for prenatal check-ups and ultrasound tests right away to assess the health, determine the pregnancy and get a detailed consultation appointment. Pregnant women should have 3 ultrasounds during pregnancy: 12 weeks, 22 weeks and 32 weeks.

Information on Zika virus disease outbreaks is regularly updated on the Department of Preventive Medicine&#39;s Website: http://vncdc.gov.vn/

Phone hotline: 0989.671.115

 

Department of Preventive Medicine, Ministry of Health





 



