URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1043/ca?-tram-gia-di?nh-bi?-pha?t-vi?-khong-diet-lang-quang
ID : VCDC2020050500003

Date : 2016-12-09 00:00:00
Title : Hundreds of families were punished for not killing the larvae
Ariticle : 





Hundreds of families were punished for not killing the larvae
12/9/2016

A number of districts in Ho Chi Minh City have just issued decisions to punish 74 cases of households who do not participate in the elimination of larvae to prevent Zika.


Many people think that this is a &quot;strong&quot; and necessary measure of the local government to establish state discipline. At the same time, this is also an opportunity for people to express their responsibility to the community as well as the law-raising attitude, even if it is just a matter of wandering ...


Unexpected because of a penalty
Mr. Tran Minh Tu, Chairman of People&#39;s Committee P.Hiep Binh Chanh (Q. Thu Duc), said that he has just issued a decision to sanction six cases of households not observing the destruction of larvae at home.

Mr. Tu said: “The sanctioning decision was made on December 2, based on the Law on Handling administrative violations, Decree 176/2013 on administrative sanctions in the field of health and records of administrative violations. prepared by the inter-sectoral inspection team of the ward earlier. ”

According to Tu, these households and businesses violated the behavior of disposing of substances and items likely to spread infectious diseases. The fine level is from VND 700,000 to VND 1.5 million / case of violation.

Previously, the ward had set up a campaign team, sending documents about the elimination of Zika larvae prevention to the heads of the population groups to disseminate to the people and businesses. See any households that have not killed the larvae, discarded the outdoor water jars ... the campaign team will remind.

As for the canals, large canals, wards will coordinate with the flood control center, the district People&#39;s Committee to kill the larvae. If the households do not follow strictly, the checking ward will make a record of administrative sanctions.

Mr. Tu said the ward will also continue to check this. For households that have been sanctioned, the ward will also re-check, if any households do not strictly comply, they will continue to be sanctioned.

A head of a household in P.Hiep Binh Chanh said it was very surprising that his name in the list was fined for errors ... not to kill the larvae according to the ward&#39;s notice.

As for NTN, the owner of a sanctioned coffee shop, also expressed his interest in resurrection when he received the sanctioning decision: “Because of my busy business, my family did not pay attention to kill the tombs and clean up around the house. Earlier, the local residents also reminded and made a record.

I will clean, fix this and follow the penalty strictly. By doing this, my family also understands more about Zika disease and prevention. ”


Punishment is limited
According to Dr. Nguyen Tri Dung - Director of Ho Chi Minh City Preventive Medical Center, on November 14, 2013, the Government issued Decree 176/2013 / ND-CP stipulating sanctions against administrative violations in the field of medical.

This Decree takes effect from December 31, 2013. However, in 2015 the whole city only sanctioned 55 cases and in 2016 sanctioned 74 cases of violations of failing to implement or refusing to apply sanitary, disinfecting and disinfecting measures in epidemic areas. .

The number of sanctioned cases in 2016 was mainly sanctioned in October and November 2016, when the Zika epidemic in the city appeared and spread to many districts.

According to Dr. Dung, the Ho Chi Minh City People&#39;s Committee has instructed the People&#39;s Committees of districts to deploy sanctions for violations of Decree 176 in the prevention of dengue fever.

“However, the implementation to apply, enforce the law, sanctions on violations in many localities is limited and incomplete. The health sector is only able to advise and keep on offering.

In my opinion, the local need to promote the implementation of Decree 176 for organizations, units and individuals to live and comply with the Constitution and laws.

What issues violate it must be sanctioned. But before sanctioning, to guide and mobilize units, organizations and people to do it first. If still do not perform new sanctions.

As for the process of implementation and sanction, how will the local judicial section implement it? ”- Dr. Dung. Dr. Dung said that at all working sessions on disease prevention and control, the health sector and preventive medicine agencies have requested the People&#39;s Committees of localities to implement this sanctioning content. Because it is one of the measures to control the risk points well and eliminate the risk of disease transmission.

These risk points can be construction works, bottle stores, garden cafes, restaurants with many ornamental plants, places selling rockery ... with containers to facilitate mosquitoes and mosquito larvae. develop.


Clause 2, section b, Article 11 of Decree No. 176/2013 / ND-CP stipulates that: if failing to implement or refusing to apply measures of hygiene, disinfection and disinfection in epidemic areas, a fine of from 1 will be imposed. -2 million.


According to the city health warning, dengue fever and Zika are currently epidemic diseases in the area and can spread at any time if there are favorable conditions.


Therefore, it is considered a violation according to Decree 176 if leaving containers with larvae - favorable conditions for spreading the disease.


Editorial Board Website - Preventive Medicine Department, Ministry of Health
(Source:
http://tuoitre.vn/tin/phap-luat/20161209/ca-tram-gia-dinh-bi-phat-vi-khong-diet-lang-quang/1232899.html)

 




 



