URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300777.html
ID : ALFR2020050100010

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Africa: Joint letter to the African Union on the impact of COVID-19 on children
Ariticle : 
15 April 2020
H.E Moussa Faki Mahamat
Chairperson, Africa Union Commission
Your Excellency :
The global COVID - 19 pandemic has brought developmental and humanitarian work to almost a complete halt and is hampering Africa's efforts to provide and engineer accelerated development for its people through Agenda 2063 . At the time of writing this letter , the re are over fifteen thousand confirmed CPOVID - 19 cases in 52 countries in Africa . The crisis is overwhelm ing national health systems, is badly damag ing economies and is pu t t ing millions of households at significant risk of harm. Not only is there the likelihood of children contracting COVID - 19, they are also the most impacted. Children especially girls face increased threats of gender - based violence, discrimination, abuse and lack of essential services .
We , t he African Union Liaison Offices of the following organisations: International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), Plan International, Save the Children International, SOS Children's V illages International, UNICEF and World Vision International , recognise and appreciate the effort s and leadership demonstrated by your Excellency and the African Union to coordinate and drive responses to COVID - 19.
We congratulate the African Union and His Excellency President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South A f rica and current Chairperson of the African Union, for calling for urgent action among AU Member States to forestall the potential catastrophic impact of COVID - 19 during the meeting of the Bureau of the African Union Heads of State and Government conven ed ahead of the G20 Leaders' Summit on 26 March 2020 . We applaud the B ureau for agreeing to establish a continental anti - COVID - 19 Fund in to which member states of the Bureau immediately contribute d US $12, 5 million seed funding.
We express our o rganisations' commitment to support AU's interventions to respond to COVID - 19 at the continental and national levels an d wish to reiterate the following:
Y our Excellency, i n light of the foregoing, we would like to make the following recommendations to the AU Commission and Member States :
 Signatories 
 i. Sam Ntelamo:                       International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) 
 ii. Samuel Norgah:                   Plan International 
 iii. Doris Mpoumou:                  Save the Children International i 
 v. Senait Gebregziabher :         SOS Children's Villages International 
 v. Edward Addai:                      UNICEF 
 vi. Brenda Kariuki :                    World Vision International 
 Cc: 
H. E. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, AU Chair
H.E. Kwesi Quartey, Deputy Chairperson, Africa Union Commission
H.E. Prof. Sarah Anyang Agbor , Commissioner for Human Resources, Science and Technology
H.E. Amira Mohammed Elfadil . Commissioner for Social Affairs
Hono u rable Joseph Nday isenga, Chairperson of the African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child .