URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005010067.html
ID : ALFR2020050100037

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Angola: COVID-19 - Police Warn Against Breaking Preventive Measures
Ariticle : 
Luanda — The National Police Wednesday warned tougher measures against citizens who violate the preventive measures aimed to arrest the new coronavirus (covid-19).
The alert was launched by Interior Ministry's spokesman, Waldemar José, at a press conference on covid-19 data in the country, stating that the offenders may face arrest and subject to summary trial.
"To guarantee the well-being of all, we will be more rigorous and adopt the necessary measures against citizens who insist on moving unnecessarily", he said.
Among the negative actions that marked the last 24 hours of the fourth day of the State of Emergency, the sub-commissioner pointed to disobedience and the contempt toward defence and national security forces orders.
According to him, some people insist on leaving their houses by claiming to go shopping at inappropriate days and times, in Presidential Decree contempt.
He also pointed out the misuse of service credentials, as one of the frequent violations of preventive measures against covid-19, as well as attempts to violate the inter-provincial cordon sanitaire.
Price speculation and the shortening of routes by taxi drivers, were also mentioned by high ranking police officer as another violation of the State of Emergency.
As example, he referred to the high concentration of people reported on Wednesday which caused traffic constraints, mainly in Luanda, where many citizens with priority to circulate were harmed by these actions.
In view of this situation, the spokesperson called on the population to comply with the preventive measures against the covid-19, to prevent the community circulation of the virus and to preserve the lives of all citizens.
The defence and national security forces detained 107 citizens, of whom 53 for violating the borders and 54 for contempt of the authorities in the last 24 hours.
Seventy-four vehicles were also seized due to overcrowding, as well as the arrest of 143 people who circulated on public roads without justification.
The State of Emergency in Angola has been in effect since March 27.