URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290729.html
ID : ALFR2020042900249

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Ghana: Chemico Limited Supports COVID-19 Fight With Gh₵150,000
Ariticle : 
One of the leading Agrochemical companies, Chemico Limited, has supported the COVID-19 fight with GH₵150,000.
The company presented a sum of GH₵50,000 to the Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR) towards its research activities and GH₵100,000 to the COVID-19 National Trust Fund to support government's effort in curbing the spread of the coronavirus.
The donation, according to Chemico Limited, is to support all stakeholders involved in the COVID-19 fight and most importantly considering the crucial need for all to work together to help minimise the negative impact of the pandemic on economic activities.
The Chairperson of the Fund, Madam Sophia Akuffo, who received the donation, commended the company for the gesture and promised all funds will be put to good use beginning with the most vulnerable.
The Executive Secretary of Chemico Limited, Mrs Mary Degollo accompanied by Mr Emmanuel Sengretsi, Chief Accountant and Human Resource Manager, were present at the Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research last Friday to hand over the cheque to the Institute.
The Director of the Centre, Prof. Abraham Annan, who received the donation on behalf of the NMIMR underscored the importance of the support, observing that, for Ghana to get remedy for the threat posed by Covid-19, a lot of testing and screening needed to be done for early detection to prevent the spread from one infected person to another.
"This donation will go a long way for us to ensure we do our mandate well," he said.
Mrs Degollo commended the Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research for their pivotal role in the COVID-19 fight and expressed the hope the donation would go a long way to support their mandate of testing and early detection of the Coronavirus to augment government's effort in putting in the appropriate measures to fight the pandemic.
The Director of Sales and Marketing-Chemico Ltd, Mr Prince Agyemang-Yeboah, urged the public to follow the protocols outlined by President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo and his team of health experts by washing their hands regularly with soap under running water, using alcohol-based hand sanitisers, wearing face masks and if possible stay at home to prevent the spread of the disease.
"We should do this with the hope that with God all things are possible and we will get through this difficult time," he said, and commended efforts of government and various stakeholders including the frontline health workers for their heroic role.