URL : https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/croatia-plans-attract-tourists-pandemic-200430152443084.html
ID : ALJA2020050100023

Date : 2020-04-30 18:30:00
Title : Croatia plans to attract tourists, despite pandemic
Ariticle : 
The Baltic hotspot hopes to lift border closures in time for peak holiday season. 
We all love going on holiday. A few days - even a couple of weeks, if we are lucky - away from regular life, catching some sun and splashing about in the sea or hotel pool.
And in a European spring characterised by lockdowns, border closures and a well-founded fear of being near anyone else, thoughts of getting away from it all are never far away.
But while many of us will have long-since dismissed any thoughts of actually heading off to foreign climes for a summer break this year, 
Croatia
 still plans to attract peak-season tourists.
The Adriatic hotspot hopes to earn nearly a third of its previously expected annual tourism revenues this year despite the 
coronavirus
 pandemic, Tourism Minister Gari Cappelli said on Thursday.
Tourism accounts for nearly 20 percent of the Balkan country's gross domestic product (GDP), with holidaymakers drawn to its beaches and warm summers.
But tourism has been hugely affected by travel restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus, and the government expects the economy to shrink 9.4 percent this year because of the pandemic.
"We will try to reach 30 percent of our tourism receipts from last year, if possible, as we still have a possibility to think about July, August and September arrivals," Cappelli told Reuters in an interview.
Last year, Croatia earned 10.5 billion euros ($11.5bn) from foreign tourists, and 12 billion euros ($13.1bn) from tourism overall - about 10 percent more than in 2018.
Cappelli said the main potential markets for Croatia this year included Slovenia, Hungary, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Germany and Italy - even though Italy has been severely hit by the virus.
"Croatia can be reached easily by car from those countries. If the epidemiological situation allows and the situation in those countries corresponds to ours, we could devise some model for the safe arrival and stay of our guests," he said.
He also said talks were under way in the 
European Union
 on the possible movement of people among member states, including Croatia, but bilateral agreements between member states could not be excluded.
Under lockdown restrictions, Croats, unless specially authorised, are not allowed to travel abroad, and foreigners who enter must spend two weeks in quarantine.
"I hope we will be able towards the end of May to meet the conditions and find a solution for reopening our border, but of course pending the epidemiological situation at the time," Cappelli said.
Croatia has had 2,076 cases of COVID-19 and 69 deaths.
Cappelli said Croatia was working on adapting tourist facilities such as hotels, camping sites and marinas to a new way of tourism adjusted to the safety measures needed against the coronavirus.