URL : https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-52517996
ID : BBCH2020050300012

Date : 2020-05-03 00:00:00
Title : Coronavirus: Johnson reveals 'contingency plans' made during treatment
Ariticle : 
        
            
                                
                                                                 
Image copyright
                 
AFP
                            
                    
Boris Johnson has revealed "contingency plans" were made while he was seriously ill in hospital with coronavirus. 
In an 
interview with the Sun on Sunday
, he says he was given "litres and litres of oxygen" to keep him alive.
He says during a week in London's St Thomas' Hospital, with three nights in intensive care, he kept asking himself: "How am I going to get out of this?"
Earlier, his fiancee, Carrie Symonds, revealed they had named their baby boy Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson.
The names are a tribute to their grandfathers and two doctors who treated Mr Johnson while he was in hospital with coronavirus, Ms Symonds wrote in an Instagram post.
    
        
            /**/            (function() {                if (window.bbcdotcom && bbcdotcom.adverts && bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync) {                    bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync('mpu', [1,2,3]);                }            })();            /**/        
    

She posted a picture of herself with the baby, 
who was born on Wednesday.
The birth came just weeks after Mr Johnson's discharge from intensive care.
            
                                                
                                            
                    

A SIMPLE GUIDE:  
How do I protect myself?


AVOIDING CONTACT: 
The rules on self-isolation and exercise


HOW A VIRUS SPREADS: 
An explanation


LOOK-UP TOOL: 
Check cases in your area


TESTING: 
Can I get tested for coronavirus?


            
                                                
                                            
                    
In his newspaper interview, the prime minister describes being wired up to monitors and finding the "indicators kept going in the wrong direction".
"It was a tough old moment, I won't deny it," he's quoted as saying. "The doctors had all sorts of arrangements for what to do if things went badly wrong."
Mr Johnson had been diagnosed with coronavirus on March 26 and was admitted to hospital 10 days later. The following day, he was moved to intensive care.
"It was hard to believe that in just a few days my health had deteriorated to this extent," the prime minister tells the Sun on Sunday. 
His recovery, he says, was down to "wonderful, wonderful nursing".
Fewer patients hospitalised
The total number of reported coronavirus-related deaths in the UK now stands at 28,131 - an increase of 621 on Friday's figure.
However, England's deputy chief medical officer Dr Jenny Harries said the number of people being treated in hospitals for the virus had fallen by 13% over the past week.
On Saturday, the 
government pledged £76m
 to support vulnerable children, victims of domestic violence and modern slavery, who were "trapped" at home during the lockdown.
The announcement followed reports of a "surge" in violence in the weeks since the lockdown was introduced.
            
                                                
                                                 
Image copyright
                 
Carrie Symonds
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    Carrie Symonds thanked NHS staff following the birth of her son in a post on Instagram                
            
                    
Mr Johnson has been back in charge of the government since last Sunday. But he was in Downing Street a matter of days before Ms Symonds gave birth.
When posting their newborn's photograph, she said his second middle name, Nicholas, was a tribute to "Dr Nick Price and Dr Nick Hart - the two doctors that saved Boris' life". 

Who is Carrie Symonds?

Politicians and leaders congratulate PM on baby

Meet the babies of Downing Street

This offered "an insight into just how serious things were for the prime minister" after contracting the virus, said BBC political correspondent Jonathan Blake.
Dr Nick Price and Prof Nick Hart offered their "warm congratulations" to the PM and Ms Symonds.
They said in a statement: "We are honoured and humbled to have been recognised in this way, and we give our thanks to the incredible team of professionals who we work with at Guy's and St Thomas' and who ensure every patient receives the best care.
"We wish the new family every health and happiness."
            