URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/WAyM39BF9OlaBUO6J4_yog?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050500001

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : World Hand Hygiene Day, May 5th, Command Center teaches proper hand washing-Department of Health and Welfare Disease Control Department
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-05
Globally (2020) is raged by the COVID-19 (Wuhan pneumonia) epidemic. In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, all countries call on the public to pay attention to personal hygiene. In addition to wearing a mask, diligent hand washing is also an important epidemic prevention measure. Today (5) falls on &quot;World Hand Hygiene Day&quot;. In response to this epidemic and responding to the hand hygiene day, Commander Chen Shizhong, Deputy Commander Chen Zongyan of the Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center, Zhang Shangchun, convener of the expert advisory group, and Zhou Zhihao The leader of the epidemic situation monitoring team and the spokesperson of Zhuang Renxiang demonstrated the correct hand washing steps at the press conference, reminding the public to strengthen hand hygiene and &quot;hold the epidemic together and protect Taiwan&quot;.

The command center stated that since 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed the &quot;Save Lives: Clean Your Hands&quot; activity, and also designated May 5 as &quot;World Hand Hygiene Day&quot;. Each year, the theme of the event is called for global response to hand hygiene, with five fingers to symbolize the five opportunities for hand hygiene, strengthening the concept of hand hygiene, and emphasizing that hand hygiene can reduce infections.

The command center pointed out that the CDC has promoted the &quot;Building a Hand Hygiene Demonstration Center&quot; project since 2010. Based on the WHO Hand Hygiene Guidelines and related tools, it has formulated the implementation strategy for hand hygiene promotion in China, and established education and training , Effectiveness evaluation and report feedback mechanisms. In addition, the CDC also promotes hand hygiene in long-term care institutions to reduce the incidence of medical care-related infections in the institution.

The international epidemic situation is still grim. The command center once again appealed to the public to take personal anti-epidemic measures during the epidemic prevention. They cannot maintain social distance and wear masks when taking public transportation. Before playing with your baby, after blowing your nose, after going to the toilet, and before and after seeing a doctor), five steps (wet, rub, punch, hold, wipe) and seven-character tips (inside, outside, clip, bow, big, stand, finish) To ensure the health of themselves and their relatives and friends.