URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/viet-nam-bat-dau-thu-nghiem-vac-xin-phong-covid-19-tren-chuot-20200503103135540.htm
ID : DANT2020050400009

Date : Sunday 03/05/2020 - 11:10
Title : Vietnam began testing the vaccine against Covid-19 in mice
Ariticle : 

VABIOTECH Vaccine and Biological One Member Limited Company (VABIOTECH) said that Vietnam was initially successful in the study of vaccine selection and testing on mice.

Since Vietnam recorded the first cases of Covid-19, scientists from VABIOTECH Vaccine and Biological One Member Limited Company (Ministry of Health) have cooperated with scientists from Bristol University (UK). ) to study the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine based on viral vector technology.

According to Dr. Do Tuan Dat, President of VABIOTECH, the research has been successful in creating strains carrying specific antigen regions of this virus. The antigen of SARS-CoV-2 in the vaccine component will help the body generate active antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, avoiding the risk of infection. This is an important raw material for vaccine production.

Initially, scientists successfully developed the vaccine selection

Covid-19 room at laboratory scale. At the same time, a test was injected in mice, to assess the ability to produce antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 virus.

In the next week, blood samples from lab mice will be transferred to the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology to assess the ability to produce antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.

After this stage, the vaccine will continue to be studied to develop a process of production and injection of animal testing to further assess the safety and immunogenicity of this vaccine.

Previously, Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam assigned the Ministry of Science and Technology to assume the prime responsibility and coordinate with the Ministry of Health, the Vietnam Academy of Science and other relevant agencies in organizing research and production of preventive vaccines. anti-epidemic Covid-19.

By the morning of 3/5, the number of cases of Covid-19 in our country has remained at 270. Since the morning of 4/16, up to now, the country has not recorded new cases in the community.

Hà An




Tag:


Coronavirus

Vaccine

Wuhan pneumonia virus




