URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/noi-long-lenh-phong-toa-chung-cu-co-ca-benh-tai-nhiem-covid-19-20200502073624028.htm
ID : DANT2020050200008

Date : Saturday 02/05/2020 - 08:22
Title : Relaxed blockade of condominiums with Covid-19 re-infection cases
Ariticle : 

On May 2, information from the Center for Disease Control, Ho Chi Minh City said that the health sector is closely monitoring the cases of Covid-19 patients discharged from the hospital. Up to now, through the periodic follow-up sampling (day 5 and day 15) on cases announced to recover from illness, seven cases have been found positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus.

The last 2 cases of reinfection were male patients No. 124 (52 years old, Brazilian nationality) treated at Cu Chi field hospital, discharged on April 14 after 3 negative results. The second case was male patient No. 235 (25 years old, British national) who was also treated at Cu Chi field hospital, was discharged on April 15 after 3 negative tests. However, the results of the second test sample since the announcement of recovery from both cases were positive for Covid-19, so they had to be re-hospitalized for treatment.


Specimens of people who have just been blockade are negative for SARS-CoV-2


Earlier, on April 29, the city detected the 15th day sample of 92 patients positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus even though the patient was sampled twice on Thursday. and the 10th day, all are negative.

Patient 92, a male international student returning from France, was found to be infected with Covid-19, after treatment, the patient rented an apartment at 1A-1B apartment on Nguyen Dinh Chieu street, Da Kao ward, district 1. Qua 2 negative tests on the 5th and 10th days after discharge, patients with masks, to convenience stores to buy some personal items.

Immediately after the positive result was returned (specimen sample on the 15th day after discharge), the City Disease Control Center and District 1 Medical Center transferred the patient back to Cu Chi field hospital. to isolate treatment, at the same time carry out epidemiological investigation of contact cases, take samples for emergency contact cases, all residents of apartments in the apartment building and sanitize the whole area.

On the night of April 30, 2020, the test results of 87 residents of the apartment building and 5 employees of the convenience store where patients came to buy equipment were negative. From the above results, the Centers for Disease Control said that up to now, although there have been positive results for Covid-19, 92 cases have not been found to infect people living around them.

On that basis, people in the apartment can live normally but still have to monitor their health, wear masks, wash their hands frequently, and limit close contact with others. Particularly for households on the upper floor with apartments of in-patient patients, the health sector recommends continued isolation at home, health monitoring, closer supervision in the coming days.

Since the beginning of the outbreak, the Ho Chi Minh City disease control system has monitored 47 hospitalized patients with a residence address in the city, of which 35 have completed isolation at home. days after discharge, all test results were negative.



The order to blockade and isolate the apartment was relaxed after no cases of infection were detected on the testing samples (photo: Pham Nguyen)



In the world, there have been many cases of patients having positive test results back after discharge. So far, there is no evidence of spread from these re-positive cases. In Vietnam, according to a report of the Ministry of Health, 5 samples of re-positive patients were reported to have only virus bodies.

In the face of many cases of post-discharge re-positive, in order to strengthen closer supervision of discharged Covid-19 patients, HCMC Department of Health has directed the implementation of daily outpatient monitoring of all cases through daily laboratory sampling until the 30th day after discharge. In addition, among the 47 above cases, 9 have been discharged from the hospital for more than 30 days and will be sampled for surveillance again.

The healthcare industry requires patients to fully comply with home isolation regulations for 14 days. Always wear a mask, stay in the room, do not contact other people. Cases of non-compliance with regulations or unable (due to living conditions) must be concentratedly isolated.

Those cases who have been fully isolated for 14 days after discharge, have negative test results on the 15th day, are still at high risk for the community, in addition to continuing daily monitoring by testing. Above, the health sector requires these cases not to leave the house if it is not absolutely necessary, always wear a mask, wash hands frequently, limit contact and do not have close contact with others, and monitor their own health. healthy until full 30 days after discharge.

Yunshan




Tag:


COVID-19

lockdown

reinfection

test




