URL : https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/-2019-ncov-new-coronavirus/mexico-covid-19/857054-covid-19-and-illegal-funeral-homes-in-mexico
ID : FLUT2020050400005

Date : 2020-05-03 23:27:49
Title : Covid-19 and illegal funeral homes in Mexico
Ariticle : 
																							Source: 
https://www.publinews.gt/gt/noticias...-covid-19.html

VIDEO. "Duckling" funeral homes aggravate health crisis for Covid-19 deceased
Workers from certified companies recognize an increase in cremations by people with Covid-19. They do not hold wakes.
By Publinews International
Sunday 03 May 2020, at 15:19

In the country at least five out of 10 funeral homes operate illegally, which would trigger a health crisis in the management of bodies that have tested positive for the new coronavirus.

A week after the peak of more infections by Covid-19, according to government estimates, the Ministry of Health (Ssa) warned that these funeral agencies do not have an adequate use in the management of the bodies, which could lead to a high health risk.

As if that were not enough, the rhythm of deaths from the new disease has caused clandestine agencies to offer funeral services at low cost and without adequate protection measures, due to the lack of trained personnel, infrastructure and budget.

In addition, reports from health authorities have detected funeral companies that even resell the coffins, a practice that could lead to a serious health impact, due to the current conditions of the health emergency.

Almost three thousand funeral agencies operate in Mexico City alone in Mexico City; while 30% half complies with the norm.

Meanwhile, according to the Mexican Council of Funeral Services (Comesef), of the universe of funeral homes, only one in five approves the requirements requested by the Ministry of Health regarding facilities and the management of bodies.

In this regard, the deputy of the PRD bench in the CDMX Congress, Víctor Hugo Lobo, assured in an interview with Publimetro that the lack of permits and documentation from funeral companies brings with it various risks, such as exposure to biological agents due to mismanagement of a body.

“Derived from the manipulation of the corpses or their biological fluids, these can be exposed by the lack of training of personnel by funeral homes that do not have the capacity or the budget, in addition to the exposure of the workers and personnel in general to said agents. "The legislator maintained.

The other pollution

Specialists consulted by this newspaper affirm that the majority of crematoriums in the country's capital operate outside the law, which could generate severe health problems and worsen the quality of the air that residents of the capital breathe.

According to Comesef, of the total number of funeral homes located in the country's capital, at least 5% have a cremation oven that operates illegally.

In this regard, the professor at the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana (UAM), Andrés Medina Sánchez, explained that health problems caused by these agents can range from conjunctivitis to asthma symptoms and cardio-respiratory problems.

Official regulations of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (Semarnat) stipulate that it is illegal for crematoriums to have a single chamber with a chimney and torch burners.

"We detected bodies with atypical pneumonia before the first covid-19"

To you as a certified agency, how much are you affected by illegal funeral homes?

- We try to take health protocols to the letter, while this type of business exposes its personnel and its clients. If you go to a hospital right now you will find duckling funeral homes on every corner. The suits they use reuse them up to six times a day.

Here at CDMX we have thousands of businesses of this type, also known as “drawers”, so it is important to put a lot of magnitude on this type of practice, especially since this pandemic will not last only a few months, you have to learn to live with it and with the necessary measures.

    What is the increase of bodies that have been seen by Covid-19?

- From the beginning we take action. Since last February we have been preparing with the pertinent sanitary norms, that is, the necessary equipment for our workers and avoiding contagions inside.

Unfortunately we have detected a flow of bodies that have to do with Covid-19; Many of these cases are related to diabetes, overweight and the elderly, although that does not mean that we have not received young people.

    When did you get the first case of a body with Covid-19?

- We received the first body on March 16; however, prior to this case we recorded two deaths from atypical pneumonia; I attribute this to the fact that tests were not yet being done to detect the new coronavirus. So we assume that the death toll from this virus is much higher.

    How many cremations do they do per day?

—From the last week to here, we received three bodies for Covid-19 a day, although two or three come to us with the record of atypical pneumonias, we assume that they may be associated with the effect of the virus.

What other measures have the cream makers and workers taken?

- We have long protected ourselves with masks and face masks for all personnel who sanitize the entire property daily, if a body arrives or is cremated with coronavirus, the entire area is thoroughly disinfected.

    The subject of the wakes, how has it been?

- That is one of the saddest for humanity, we are going through a very difficult time and people have come to understand that farewell is a risk, we very much agree that the farewell ceremony be with the fewest number of people possible.

We have to privilege life, it is more convenient to do it after the body has been cremated; It is complicated and very sad. People no longer see their relative, they can no longer even open the coffin. It is very important that people understand that this is real.

I who work in a funeral home can tell you that the risk is enormous, we are seeing it daily; This type of burial from Covid-19 is too sad and painful.

In numbers

    8 billion pesos is the value of the funeral industry in the country; 50% of this income comes from CDMX.
    50% of the total of the funeral agencies that operate in the Mexican Republic lack the corresponding permits, are not certified and do not comply with the sanitary norms with serious irregularities, such as the reselling of coffins on up to six occasions.

* With information from Daniel Flores.
													