URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006884034
ID : GPHN2020050100153

Date : 2020-04-29 18:42:00
Title : Coronavirus cases confirmed at care homes in Surrey and Langley | News - Daily Hive
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus cases confirmed at care homes in Surrey and Langley
Apr 29 2020, 11:42 am
Langley Lodge/Facebook
Health authorities have announced COVID-19 cases at two additional care homes in British Columbia, including a residence where a previous outbreak had been declared as over.
Fraser Health Authority says that a resident at The Residence at Clayton Heights and a staff member at Langley Lodge have tested positive for coronavirus.
The Residence at Clayton Heights is located in Surrey and helps those with brain injury. Fraser Health said that “the resident is in self-isolation at their home in the acquired brain injury unit.”
See also:
New downtown Vancouver mural honouring healthcare workers is a symbol of hope
A staff member at Langley Lodge is also in self-isolation at home. The care home was affected by an outbreak in late March , although it had been declared resolved on April 23.
“Enhanced control measures have been put in place at each site, and Fraser Health is working with staff to identify anyone who may have been exposed and is taking steps to protect the health of all staff, residents and families,” reads a statement from the health authority.
The following measures have been implemented at the two homes:
Staffing levels are being maintained to provide resident care
Visits are being limited to only essential visitors
Staff and resident movement in the facility is being restricted
Cleaning and infection control measures are being enhanced,
Residents, families, and staff are being notified
Staff and residents are being screened twice a day
On Tuesday afternoon, British Columbia health officials announced 55 new test-positive coronavirus cases and another two deaths as a result of the virus.
During a press conference, Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry said the total number of recorded cases in the province now sits at 2,053.
Footer