URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006869441
ID : GPHN2020042900144

Date : 2020-04-29 04:03:00
Title : Some Cos Still Have the Licence to Import Faulty Antibody Kits
Ariticle : 
ICMR has banned use of kits made by 2 Chinese cos; some states using South Korean ones
More than a dozen importers continue to hold licences to buy coronavirus antibody test kits from two Chinese companies that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has implicated for quality issues.
According to the Drug Controller General of India, about 13 firms have been granted permits to supply kits made by Wondfo Biotech and four importers have been allowed to supply Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics kits.
With their licences still valid, they can procure and sell kits directly to the states."If ICMR has found issues with the accuracy of these kits, how can the DCGI continue to hold the licences valid for these importers? The licences of the Indian agents should have been suspended by the drug regulator," said a person aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.
Drug Controller General of India VG Somani did not respond to text messages seeking comment on the issue. The ICMR advised states on Monday not to use the antibody test kits procured from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics and said the kits would be returned. The government had decided on Monday to withdraw the faulty rapid test kits from use and cancelled all procurement orders after it emerged that their results were inaccurate.
After the ICMR said the results showed "wide variation" in their sensitivity in field conditions, China expressed concern."We are deeply concerned with the evaluation results and the decisions made by the ICMR. China attaches great importance to the quality of exported medical products," Ji Rong, spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in India, said in a statement.
Some states purchased the kits from South Korea's SD Biosensor and are going ahead as they see antibody detection as the key to lifting the lockdown. The antibody tests are intended to signal whether people have developed immunity after getting infected by the coronavirus.
Among these states is Chhattisgarh, which bought 75,000 South Korean kits. Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo told ET that antibody testing is a helpful tool in surveillance."Rather than not knowing anything and unless more informed information is available, these kits can give information in the shortest possible time. It is the best option available," he said.
Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal, among others, have also used rapid testing kits, Deo said, adding that the lockdown cannot be indefinite."There is a need to start economic activities, which means we will have to live with the virus. As there is no cure, it's going to stay with us," he added.