URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900128
ID : GPHN2020050400083

Date : 2020-05-03 20:02:00
Title : Health Canada pauses regulatory approval for COVID-19 rapid test
Ariticle : 
22 minutes ago
Ottawa-based Spartan Bioscience Inc. is recalling thousands of its newly approved portable units that promised a rapid test for COVID-19 now that Health Canada has suspended the regulatory approval it granted last month.
About 5,500 of the hand-held DNA analyzers, called the Spartan Cube, have been shipped to federal and provincial health agencies since the company gained that approval from Health Canada.
The agency confirmed on Sunday there are now concerns over the devices, designed to give results within an hour, following a report published in the Journal de Montréal, which said the test was found to be less effective than expected.
"In light of the clinical results, Health Canada has placed conditions on the company's authorization to restrict the use of the product to research use only until adequate evidence of clinical performance can be provided. The Spartan product can continue to be used for research purposes only," the agency said in a statement.
Spartan Bioscience said Health Canada first advised the company on May 1 that the National Microbiology Laboratory had concerns regarding the efficacy of the swab for the testing device.
"The same report indicated no concerns regarding the accuracy and analytical performance of Spartan's test reagents and portable DNA analyzer device," Spartan said, adding that it will be performing additional clinical studies.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in light of the new restrictions on the rapid test kit, it's now up to the provinces to decide whether they can still ease lockdown restrictions this week or whether they need to reopen their economies more slowly.
His government had to take "quick action" to protect Canadians, but that also means "there are going to be new facts that come in," Trudeau told reporters at his briefing in Ottawa on Sunday.
Trudeau kicked off the briefing by announcing his government plans to invest $240 million to create online mental health services. He said the money would be used to create an online platform "with a whole range of services" to ease the pressure on the health-care system.
The prime minister also announced a $175-million investment in a Vancouver-based company's research into treatment and prevention of COVID-19. Trudeau said AbCellera Biologics Inc. has shown promising signs of progress in identifying antibodies that could be used create a vaccine or drugs to counter the respiratory illness.
On Saturday, Canada's top public health official struck an optimistic tone about the COVID-19 pandemic on Saturday, saying that efforts to flatten the curve are working as provinces across the country reported more positive figures.
"By following public health recommendations, we have collectively brought down the rate of infection. We are flattening the curve," Dr. Theresa Tam said in a news release.
"While we can continue to be cautiously optimistic, it is important that everyone remains aware of our duty to protect one another, especially those who are most vulnerable, as we navigate the next few weeks."
The message came as New Brunswick reported they had no more active cases of COVID-19 on both Saturday and Sunday, after two weeks without a new infection.
Ontario Premier Doug Ford said on Saturday that his province could get through the pandemic faster than previously expected.
"We're seeing a gradual downward slope in the public domain, and the lower we get the more we can open up and get back to the new normal," Ford said.
Provinces across Canada are preparing to start relaxing lockdown rules in the coming week.
usinesses such as gardening centres and auto dealerships will be allowed to open in Ontario on Monday, while residents in Newfoundland and Labrador will be allowed to interact with one household other than their own.
Manitoba will allow many non-essential businesses, restaurant patios, museums, campgrounds and other facilities to reopen.
Alberta has told dentists, physiotherapists and other medical professionals they can start operating again on Monday.
The Canadian Federation of Independent Business says some businesses may not reopen until they get safety measures in place.
Quebec is letting retail stores outside the Montreal area reopen on Monday. Businesses in the supply chains of those stores can also resume operations.
Stores within the Montreal region have the green light to reopen the following Monday. The province plans to gradually reopen daycares, elementary schools, construction and manufacturing during the month of May.
That province has more than half of Canada's COVID-19 cases and has seen most of its deaths in long-term care homes. Quebec Premier François Legault has said the fight against COVID-19 is entirely different in those facilities.
As of Sunday afternoon, Canada had 59,366 confirmed and presumptive coronavirus cases, with the majority concentrated in Ontario and Quebec. Provinces and territories list 24,739 of the cases as resolved or recovered. A CBC News tally of COVID-19-related deaths based on provincial data, regional health information and CBC's reporting lists 3,759 deaths in Canada and two known coronavirus-related deaths of Canadians abroad.
The contagious respiratory illness causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness or death. There is no proven treatment or vaccine for the virus, which first emerged in China in late 2019.
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/coronavirus-covid19-1.5553826