URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006886501
ID : GPHN2020050100215

Date : 2020-05-01 07:17:00
Title : Cumberland reports 13 additional COVID-19 cases; launches food benefit program
Ariticle : 
May 01--
May 1--Cumberland County, which has 272 confirmed COVID-19 cases as of Thursday evening, is launching a new food benefit program to help families purchase food for children affected by school closings during the pandemic.
Cumberland County health officials reported 13 additional coronavirus cases Thursday, while Columbus and Robeson counties reported deaths associated with the virus.
This content is being provided for free as a public service to our readers during the coronavirus outbreak. Please support local journalism by subscribing to The Fayetteville Observer at fayobserver.com/subscribenow. Follow fayobserver.com/topics/coronavirus for more coronavirus coverage.
The state has been approved for the new Pandemic Electronic Benefit Transfer program. The program will provide extra help buying groceries for the families of the more than 39,000 Cumberland County children who normally receive or are eligible for free and reduced lunch at school.
Eligible families will receive approximately $371 in total P-EBT benefits per child, provided over two installments. Unused benefits will rollover month-to-month and must be used within 365 days, according to a news release.
Families do not need to apply for the P-EBT program. School information will be used to determine eligibility and distribution of benefits, the release said. Families currently receiving Food and Nutrition Services benefits who are eligible for P-EBT will receive the additional benefit on their existing EBT card.
P-EBT eligible families not currently enrolled in FNS will be mailed an EBT card and a letter from NCDHHS in the next few weeks explaining how to activate and use their card. The P-EBT card and letter will be mailed to the address on the children's school record.
The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services will administer the P-EBT program in collaboration with the N.C. Department of Public Instruction. For information, visit www.ncdhhs.gov.
Cumberland County Schools also will continue providing curbside pick-up meals at various locations to all children 18 and younger.
Families can text FOODNC to 877-877 to find local meal sites. The service also is available in Spanish by texting COMIDA to 877-877.
Other cases
Columbus and Robeson Counties reported coronavirus-related deaths Thursday afternoon.
A woman in her 60s with underlying medical conditions has become the fourth person from Robeson County to die from COVID-19, according to a news release.
Columbus County reported its 10th death associated with the virus. The individual died Thursday while hospitalized, according to a news release.
Robeson County health officials confirmed 26 additional coronavirus cases. The age ranges of the latest cases are from 4 to 63. Seventeen of the individuals are between the ages of 25 and 49 and five of the cases are work-related, according to available data.
The release said "one of the primary testing locations has not been providing sufficient information to determine possible sites/reasons for the acquisition of the virus."
This is determined later by health department staff as they conduct the contact tracing of each case, according to the release.
The Columbus County Health Department confirmed 12 additional COVID-19 cases, bringing the total there to 153 as of Thursday evening.
Seven of the new cases are connected to congregate living facilities in Columbus County and three more are connected to positive family members. One individual is connected to the COVID-19 outbreak at the nearby Smithfield Foods facility, officials said.
The Columbus County Health Department said it will be releasing an update on COVID-19 recoveries next week.
The Sampson County Health Department Thursday reported 11 new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total positive cases in Sampson County to 74.
No Sampson County deaths have been reported as a result of the disease.
The investigations of the new cases are ongoing, the health department said. The department is working to identify people who came in close contact with the patients.
The department previously reported an active COVID-19 outbreak at Smithfield Packing Company in Clinton. There are now 21 confirmed cases at the plant. Some of these patients live in other counties and are not counted as Sampson cases.
The health department said 362 coronavirus tests have been done in Sampson County. Of the 74 positive cases, 14 have recovered. There have been 264 negative test results and 24 results are pending.
In Lee County, 15 positive cases of COVID-19 were reported Thursday, bringing the total there to 169. No COVID-19-related deaths have been reported in Lee County.
In Harnett County, nine new cases were confirmed Thursday, bringing that county's total to 165.
Harnett has reported seven deaths related to COVID-19. Seventy-seven people have recovered. The age range of Harnett patients is 2 to 97, with an average age of 53.
Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at rmullen@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3561.
-----
___
(c)2020 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.)
Visit The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.
Copyright (c) 2020, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.