URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006902588
ID : GPHN2020050400179

Date : 2020-05-04 07:02:00
Title : Four new cases in Calhoun; local total at 238
Ariticle : 
The Calhoun County Public Health Department has confirmed four additional cases of COVID-19 in the area, bringing the total number of local cases to 238 as of Sunday morning.
Of those cases, 15 people have died from the coronavirus. No new deaths were reported on Sunday.
An additional person has been hospitalized since Saturday for a cumulative total of 62 COVID-19 hospital patients in the area since the outbreak began.
The Calhoun County Public Health Department and the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services continue to closely monitor hospital bed capacity, as the ability for local healthcare systems to handle a potential surge is critical for taking any steps toward reopening sections of the economy.
The Bronson Healthcare System – which includes hospitals Battle Creek, Kalamazoo and South Haven – was at 62% bed occupancy as of April 30, according to data from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services. Oaklawn Hospital was at 40% bed occupancy.
ZIP Code data shows that nearly all areas of Calhoun County have at least one resident with a confirmed case of COVID-19. ZIP code 49015 has the highest number of documented cases, with over 60 in the area, according to data from the Calhoun County Public Health Department. The Springfield area, ZIP code 49037, also has a high number of confirmed cases, with the health department reporting between 46 and 60 cases. The number of confirmed cases south of Battle Creek, in ZIP code 49014, has also increased in the past week, with 16 to 30 cases now being reported, according to health department data.
Understanding where there are high concentrations of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the community can help show what the spread of the virus looks like in Calhoun County, but it is only one data point, health officials say.
People should not use ZIP code data as an indication of their risk of being exposed to the coronavirus, according to the Calhoun County Public Health Department. The data only represents where an infected person lives and not where they have traveled. COVID-19 is a community-spread disease, and people should assume that whenever they are in a public space, there is a risk of being exposed, according to health officials.
Michigan reported 547 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, for a statewide total of 43,754.
Of those cases, 4,049 people have died, with 29 new deaths reported on Sunday.
In west Michigan, Kent County continues to be the hardest hit, with 1,786 cases and 39 deaths reported as of Sunday. Kalamazoo County now has the second-highest number of cases on the west side of the state, with 456 cases and 18 deaths, according to data from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.
The state continues to carefully track the rate of rise in the number of cases for different regions in the state, and according to Chief Medical Executive and Chief Deputy Director for Health for the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Joneigh Khaldun, the west side of the state is seeing an increase.
Health officials urge people to continue to follow all necessary health precautions to help continue to slow the spread of COVID-19. Everyone should wash their hands frequently for at least 20 seconds, sanitize commonly touched surfaces and stay at home unless they have to go out for essential items. When in public, people should keep 6-feet of space between themselves and others and wear a cloth mask.
Those with symptoms– which include fever, coughing and shortness of breath– are encouraged to seek out testing. The Calhoun County Public Health Department recommends that people call testing sites ahead of time to see what protocols are in place for testing.
Calhoun County is providing regular updates on its response to COVID-19 online. The state is also providing daily updates at michigan.gov/coronavirus.
Contact Elena Durnbaugh at (269)243-5938 or edurnbaugh@battlecreekenquirer.com.