URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006886831
ID : GPHN2020050100222

Date : 2020-05-01 08:52:00
Title : Social distancing slows pace of virus spread
Ariticle : 
Dr. Abdul Latif Al Khal (right), Chair of the National Strategic Group on COVID-19, addressing a press conference on Qatar TV yesterday. Also seen is Dr. Einas Al Kuwari, Chair of the Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC)
The majority 90 percent cases of COVID-19 in Qatar are mild like regular flu, said a senior official yesterday. He said the preventive measures such as social distancing has reduced the spread of COVID-19 in Qatar.
“They were detected during screening of the contacts of positive cases and will be recovered within two or three weeks, said Dr. Abdul Latif Al Khal, Chair of the National Strategic Group on COVID-19 and Head of the Infectious Diseases Division at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMD) while addressing a press conference on Qatar TV.
“Most countries around the world are seeing as steeper rise in daily numbers before they level off,” said Dr. Al Khal. He said that while the number of cases continues to increase, it is encouraging that the percentage of critically ill cases is very low. “The overwhelming majority of people with COVID-19 in Qatar experience only mild, flu-like symptoms and make a full recovery.”
“This week a significant milestone was reached with 1,000 patients having fully recovered a number that will continue to increase,” said Al Khal.
He said that the preventive measures such as physical distancing have not stopped the spread of the virus but they have reduced the speed of the spread and enabled the healthcare system to provide high-quality care to patients who require intense medical treatment.
“The healthcare sector has rapidly activated significant capacity to house COVID-19 patients in suitable facilities and has capacity for many more if needed,” said Dr. Al Khal. He said that life will return to normal as soon as it is safe to do so, but this will be done gradually.
“Only when we are certain that we are past the peak of the virus in Qatar then we begin to consider removing some of the restrictions that are currently in place. It is essential that people continue to play their part and follow preventive recommendations,” said Dr. Al Khal.
Regarding the positive cases according to the location, he said that that the highest 6,560 cases are recorded at the place of health quarantine 6,061 at the area (Industrial Area), 1,019 cases at HMC, 203 cases at hostility designated for quarantine, 192 cases at the facilities of health quarantine and 115 cases at QTN.
“As much as 1,169 recovered cases of COVID-19 including 953 cases for male which is 82 percent of total recovered cases and 216 cases of female, 18 percent were recorded.” He said that the highest number of positive cases 36.79 percent is from 25 to 34 years age group, followed by 29.61 percent from 35 to 44 years.
He said that as per the gender wise division of the positive cases, only 9 percent cases are female and 91 percent are male. Dr. Einas Al Kuwari, Chair of the Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) said that there are two kinds COVID-19 tests; PCR molecular test, the gold standard test using swab of the back of the mouth and the top of the nose to determines if someone is COVID-19 positive.
She said that the second test; using a finger prick which delivers rapid results and confirms if someone has been exposed to COVID-19 previously, but does not determine if they are COVID-19 positive. “
There are three elements of our testing strategy overall. Healthcare related testing which is provided for people who come to a healthcare setting and display COVID-19 symptoms, she added. “Public health testing, contract tracing – this is where anyone who has had contact with someone who is COVID-19.
Random sampling is where a sample population area is chosen and people are randomly tested. This provides a better understanding of how widespread the virus is,” said Dr. Einas
Social distancing slows pace of virus spread