URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868718
ID : GPHN2020042900168

Date : 2020-04-28 22:50:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Coronavirus; Recent Reports from China-Japan Friendship Hospital Highlight Findings in Coronavirus (Identification of a novel coronavirus causing severe pneumonia in human: a descriptive study)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Investigators discuss new findings in RNA Viruses - Coronavirus. According to news reporting originating from Beijing, People's Republic of China, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Human infections with zoonotic coronaviruses (CoVs), including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV, have raised great public health concern globally. Here, we report a novel bat-origin CoV causing severe and fatal pneumonia in humans."
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from China-Japan Friendship Hospital, "We collected clinical data and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens from five patients with severe pneumonia from Jin Yin-tan Hospital of Wuhan, Hubei province, China. Nucleic acids of the BAL were extracted and subjected to next-generation sequencing. Virus isolation was carried out, and maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees were constructed. Five patients hospitalized from December 18 to December 29, 2019 presented with fever, cough, and dyspnea accompanied by complications of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Chest radiography revealed diffuse opacities and consolidation. One of these patients died. Sequence results revealed the presence of a previously unknown b-CoV strain in all five patients, with 99.8% to 99.9% nucleotide identities among the isolates. These isolates showed 79.0% nucleotide identity with the sequence of SARS-CoV (GenBank NC_004718) and 51.8% identity with the sequence of MERS-CoV (GenBank NC_019843). The virus is phylogenetically closest to a bat SARS-like CoV (SL-ZC45, GenBank MG772933) with 87.6% to 87.7% nucleotide identity, but is in a separate clade. Moreover, these viruses have a single intact open reading frame gene 8, as a further indicator of bat-origin CoVs. However, the amino acid sequence of the tentative receptor-binding domain resembles that of SARS-CoV, indicating that these viruses might use the same receptor."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "A novel bat-borne CoV was identified that is associated with severe and fatal respiratory disease in humans."
For more information on this research see: Identification of a novel coronavirus causing severe pneumonia in human: a descriptive study. Chinese Medical Journal, 2020;():1. (Chinese Medical Association - www.cmj.org; Chinese Medical Journal - www.ecmj.org.cn/ch/first_menu.aspx?parent_id=20070904111927001)
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting Y.M. Wang, Dept. of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Center of Respiratory Medicine, National Clinical Research Center for Respiratory Diseases, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China. Additional authors for this research include L.L. Ren, Z.Q. Wu, Z.C. Xiang, L. Guo, T. Xu, Y.Z. Jiang, Y. Xiong, Y.J. Li, X.W. Li, H. Li, G.H. Fan, X.Y. Gu, Y. Xiao, H. Gao, J.Y. Xu, F. Yang, X.M. Wang, C. Wu, L. Chen, Y.W. Liu, B. Liu, J. Yang and X. Wang.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, Beijing, Genetics, Virology, Coronavirus, Nidovirales, RNA Viruses, Coronaviridae, Risk and Prevention, People's Republic of China.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC