URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006879020
ID : GPHN2020043000117

Date : 2020-04-30 05:22:00
Title : Reactions to spread of coronavirus among employees of Afghanistan's largest media group
Ariticle : 
Afghanistan, April 30 -- Reports regarding the outbreak of the novel coronavirus among employees of Moby Group, one of Afghanistan's largest media group's, left the social media users appalled as the disease is sharply spreading the country.
The Tolo News run by Moby Group, confirmed Wednesday that some employees of Moby Group have contracted the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) virus.
Tolo News did not elaborate further but two prominent journalists of the news channel confirmed that they have tested positive for the disease.
Yaser Abrar, one of the journalists and anchors of Tolo News, confirmed in an online post that he has tested positive for COVID-19 as he sought support and advices from the people to fight the disease.
Tamim Hamid, another reporter of Tolo News, also confirmed in an online post that he is in the middle of the fight against coronavirus, expressing hopes that he would soon return to work and join his colleagues in the field of reporting.
Meanwhile, the social media users and media activists have massively taken to social media websites offering good wishes to Tolo News and Moby Group employees who have contracted the disease.
Reacting to reports regarding the outbreak of COVID-19 among Moby Group employees, Tariq Arian, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Interior, tweeted that the doctors, police and reporters are in the frontline of the fight against coronavirus.
This comes as the Ministry of Public Health announced Wednesday that the total positive cases of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) have reached 1939 as the authorities recorded 110 new positive cases.
The Khaama Press News Agency is the leading and largest English news service for Afghanistan with over 3 million hits a month. Independent authors/columnists and experts are welcomed to contribute stories, opinions and editorials. Send stories to news@khaama.com.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Khaama Press.