URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006894017
ID : GPHN2020050300014

Date : 2020-05-01 22:01:00
Title : Coronavirus: Barrie, Ont. hit by fourth COVID-19 outbreak - Global News
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus: Barrie, Ont. hit by fourth COVID-19 outbreak
Scroll back to top of the page
Back
By Daina Goldfinger Global News
Posted May 1, 2020 5:59 pm
1:35
Coronavirus outbreak: ‘Still a lot of work to do,’ says Ontario health minister on new long-term care outbreaks
WATCH: Ontario Health Minister Christine Elliott discussed on Friday the province's efforts to protect long-term care homes.
Smaller font Descrease article font size
-A
Larger font Increase article font size
A+
Copy link
The fourth COVID-19 outbreak in Barrie, Ont., has been reported at a local retirement home, the Simcoe Muskoka District Health Unit’s medical officer of health said at a tele-press conference Friday.
Chartwell Whispering Pines Retirement Residence has one staff member who’s been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus , the local health unit’s medical officer of health, Dr. Charles Gardner, said.
“We’re carrying out an investigation of that premises to see if there are any others that are affected by the situation,” Gardner said.
Owen Hill Care Community has had 11 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus — seven in residents and four in employees.
Trending Stories
United Front groups in Canada helped Beijing stockpile coronavirus safety supplies
Story continues below advertisement
“One of the residents is admitted to [the Royal Victoria Regional Health Centre], and the others are presently isolated at the facility,” Gardner said.
IOOF Odd Fellow and Rebekah Home only has one staffer who’s tested positive for the novel coronavirus, while two employees have tested positive at Woods Park Care Centre.
In Simcoe Muskoka, there are seven COVID-19 outbreaks, four of which are in Barrie. One of the outbreaks is at Bradford Valley Care Community in Bradford, while another is at Bayview Retirement Home in Waubaushene, Ont.
The seventh outbreak is at an unidentified group home in the region.
In Ontario, there have been 861 deaths reported among residents and patients in long-term care homes, in addition to 166 outbreaks, according to the ministry of long-term care.
1:35
Coronavirus outbreak: ‘Still a lot of work to do,’ says Ontario health minister on new long-term care outbreaks