URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006899424
ID : GPHN2020050400062

Date : 2020-05-02 23:30:00
Title : COVID-19: Four more deaths bring total to 29 at Orléans long-term care home - Ottawa Sun
Ariticle : 
The Madonna Care Community in OttawaTony Caldwell / Postmedia
“Families are scared and we don’t know what is going on there.”
Twenty-nine residents of an Orléans long-term care home have now died from COVID-19 — four of them over a period of 24 hours this weekend, say family members.
Betty Yakimenko, who heads the family council at Madonna Care Community in Orléans, said the deaths were confirmed Saturday by an official at the home.
Yakimenko, whose mother lives in the home, is among the family members who went public last month to plead for more help at the home, which was short-staffed and struggling to cope.
She said Saturday it is difficult to get up to date information.
“Families are scared and we don’t know what is going on there.”
Madonna Care is among the Ottawa long-term care homes that have received additional help from hospital staff as part of the province’s action plan to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in long-term care homes.
Yakimenko said she has been told that teams from CHEO and elsewhere have gone into the long-term care home to assist.
A total of 74 residents have tested positive at the home. Twenty-two of those cases have been resolved, she said.
Ottawa Public Health has not updated its long-term care case counts and death counts since April 28, for technical reasons. On April 28, public health reported 15 deaths at Madonna Care. This newspaper was unable to reach Sienna Senior Living, which operates the home, for comment.
It is not the only long-term care home that has seen a spike in COVID-19 deaths in recent days.
At Carlingview Manor, 19 residents had died of COVID-19 as of Friday, according to family members who receive regular updates. More than 131 residents and 62 staff members have tested positive at the long-term care home on Carling Avenue.
Mary Anne Frappier, whose brother lives at Madonna Care, called the situation there unacceptable.
At least half of the COVID-19 deaths in the province have been in long-term care homes. Late last month, Premier Doug Ford announced an action plan to increase testing and send in supports and additional staff to help homes cope.
The province also asked the Canadian Armed Forces to assist at a handful of homes in southern Ontario.
Meanwhile, the City of Ottawa reported Saturday that nine staff members and two residents at the four city-run homes have now tested positive for COVID-19.
 