URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006881651
ID : GPHN2020050100008

Date : 2020-04-29 22:40:00
Title : Hamilton has 425 COVID-19 cases, one new outbreak at retirement home - Global News
Ariticle : 
Hamilton has 425 COVID-19 cases, one new outbreak at retirement home
Scroll back to top of the page
Back
By Don Mitchell Global News
Posted April 29, 2020 6:37 pm
Updated April 29, 2020 9:34 pm
Hamilton has 14 COVID-19 outbreaks in the city — ten are institutional with four community outbreaks.
@HamHealthSci
Smaller font Descrease article font size
-A
Larger font Increase article font size
A+
Copy link
Hamilton, Ont., reported 425 total cases of the novel coronavirus on Wednesday, with 420 confirmed cases and five probable ones.
The city did not record any new deaths connected to COVID-19 ,  which are holding at 17 as of April 29.
Public health says there are now 14 outbreaks in the city — 10 are institutional with four community outbreaks.
A new outbreak was revealed at St. Elizabeth’s retirement home on Rymal Road near Garth Street after a staff member tested positive for COVID-19.
Outbreaks continue at three hospitals — St. Peter’s and two St. Joseph’s locations — with 15 cases connected to staff members.
During the city’s town hall on Wednesday night, medical officer of health Dr. Elizabeth Richardson said public health and its partners are doing daily checks on care homes with outbreaks in Hamilton.
Story continues below advertisement
READ MORE: 424 new coronavirus cases in Ontario, total reaches 14,856 with 892 deaths
“And we’re touching base with them every single day,” said Richardson, “When they’re not in an outbreak, it’s more like every other day to make sure that they’re doing fine.”
Public health said it has also expanded surveillance testing in homes with an outbreak to include all residents and staff, and not just those who contacted infected individuals.
“We’re about 20 percent, 25 percent of the way through that. We’re doing that over a couple of weeks,” Richardson said.
Twenty-eight people are in Hamilton hospitals receiving treatment for the virus: 11 at St Joseph’s and 17 at Hamilton Health Sciences facilities.
The city says there are 113 community-acquired infections with no link to anyone known to have the virus.
More than half of the city’s cases, 247, have been resolved.
0:51
Coronavirus outbreak: ‘What I can give you is hope’ says Ford as COVID-19 cases trend downwards
Next Video
Niagara Health reports 478 COVID-19 cases, five more deaths
Niagara Region reported two more deaths on Wednesday and six new cases of COVID-19 for a total of 478 with more than a third, 242, resolved, according to public health.
The region has 44 deaths with 38 tied to residents of long-term care homes or retirement residences.
Trending Stories
B.C. reports 4 new COVID-19 deaths as cases at poultry plants climb
Story continues below advertisement
The region has COVID-19 outbreaks in two retirement homes — Lundy Manor in Niagara Falls, and Seasons in Welland.
Royal Rose Place, Woodlands of Sunset in Welland, Bethesda Community Services in Lincoln and Henley House in St Catharines are the four long-term care homes with outbreaks.
Niagara Health says outbreaks continue in two units of its St. Catharines General site as of Wednesday.
The agency says 31 people who tested positive for the coronavirus have died in their hospitals.
Haldimand-Norfolk with 190 cases of the new coronavirus
Haldimand-Norfolk Health Unit (HNHU) is reporting 190 lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases as of April 29.
The region’s total number of reported deaths is 30 with Anson Place Retirement / Nursing Home accounting for 27 deaths in the region.
0:48
Next Video
Halton Region has 508 novel coronavirus cases
Halton Region reported five more confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus on Wednesday for a total of 508 including 60 probable cases, according to public health.
The region has 22 deaths connected to COVID-19 with 11 having been residents or patients a part of an institutional outbreak.
Story continues below advertisement
An outbreak that started on April 1 at Mountainview retirement home in Halton Hills has been declared over. The facility accounts for 10 of the region’s deaths.
There are outbreaks at two retirement homes, three long-term care homes, Community Youth Group home and Joseph Brant hospital.
Seventy-one cases have been connected to residents or patients in an institutional outbreak.
Public health says 301 cases have recovered as of April 29.
READ MORE: Coronavirus: Ontario restaurants relying on Uber Eats angry about weekend outage
Brant County with 93 COVID-19 cases
Brant County’s health unit says there are 93 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as of Wednesday with four currently hospitalized with the virus.
The region has three deaths and 63 resolved cases.
The county has two outbreaks at Telfer Place long-term care and St. Joseph’s Lifecare Centre
View link »
Questions about COVID-19? Here are some things you need to know:
Health officials caution against all international travel. Returning travellers are legally obligated to self-isolate for 14 days, beginning March 26, in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others. Some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self-isolate.
Story continues below advertisement
Symptoms  can include fever, cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu. Some people can develop a more severe illness. People most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease. If you develop symptoms,  contact public health authorities .
To  prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve. They also recommend minimizing contact with others, staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out.
For full COVID-19 coverage from Global News,  click here .