URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006866028
ID : GPHN2020042900018

Date : 2020-04-29 14:32:00
Title : Elite science team coughs up chilling viral winter warning
Ariticle : 
Australia's top researchers and science leaders have formed a strike force to help the federal government navigate the COVID-19 crisis.
The group, known as the Rapid Research Information Forum, has warned the virus that causes COVID-19 is likely to spread faster in cold weather and says the world could face annual winter coronavirus seasons.
The chairman of the forum is Chief Scientist Dr Alan Finkel, and its 35 members include state and territory chief scientists.
Launched two weeks ago, the group meets daily by email to consider questions from cabinet ministers. Forum members then call on their best scientists to produce peer-reviewed 1500-word summaries of the available evidence - often within less than five days - in response to the ministerial queries.
The first question, posed by Health Minister Greg Hunt, was about the effect of winter on the potential spread of COVID-19.
Viruses spread in tiny droplets released when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
Cold, dry weather makes those droplets smaller so when another person breathes them in they go deeper into the lungs where they are more likely to cause an infection. Lower levels of sunlight can also weaken people's natural immunity.
This could lead to a resurgence of the virus annually in winter until we have a vaccine, according to Professor Tony Cunningham, director of the Westmead Institute's Centre for Virus Research and a lead author of the advice.
"The most likely time for it to recur is in winter," he said. "We don't know, but these are all things we have to be wary of."
However, any increase in infectiousness could be managed by social distancing, and other measures to control the spread of the virus would still be highly effective even in winter, the report concludes.
"It's something to be concerned about but not something to be worried about. [It's] something to be managed," Dr Finkel said.
The forum is now working on questions from other federal ministers, including what effects switching children to online learning would have, how accurate antibody tests are and which COVID-19 vaccines are showing the most promise.
The forum was convened at the request of Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Science Minister Karen Andrews.
"As an engineer I've always been a big advocate of the scientific process and passionately believe in the role of science informing decision making," Ms Andrews said.
Australia Academy of Science chief executive Anna-Maria Arabia said she was hopeful the forum represented a new direction for the government in how it engaged with science.
Scientific organisations in the US and UK were routinely called on by government to review policy or provide advice, she said.
"I'd hope this is the beginning of a model where government might routinely ... consult the evidence-base to inform their decisions, especially around issues of national importance."
'The most likely time for it to recur is in winter.'