URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868692
ID : GPHN2020042900176

Date : 2020-04-28 22:51:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Coronavirus; Reports on Coronavirus from University of Hong Kong Provide New Insights (Zoonotic Origins of Human Coronaviruses)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Research findings on RNA Viruses - Coronavirus are discussed in a new report. According to news reporting from Hong Kong, People's Republic of China, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "Mutation and adaptation have driven the co-evolution of coronaviruses (CoVs) and their hosts, including human beings, for thousands of years. Before 2003, two human CoVs (HCoVs) were known to cause mild illness, such as common cold."
Financial supporters for this research include Hong Kong Health and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong Research Grants Council.
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from the University of Hong Kong, "The outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) have flipped the coin to reveal how devastating and life-threatening an HCoV infection could be. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in central China at the end of 2019 has thrusted CoVs into the spotlight again and surprised us with its high transmissibility but reduced pathogenicity compared to its sister SARS-CoV. HCoV infection is a zoonosis and understanding the zoonotic origins of HCoVs would serve us well. Most HCoVs originated from bats where they are non-pathogenic. The intermediate reservoir hosts of some HCoVs are also known. Identifying the animal hosts has direct implications in the prevention of human diseases. Investigating CoV-host interactions in animals might also derive important insight on CoV pathogenesis in humans. In this review, we present an overview of the existing knowledge about the seven HCoVs, with a focus on the history of their discovery as well as their zoonotic origins and interspecies transmission. Importantly, we compare and contrast the different HCoVs from a perspective of virus evolution and genome recombination. The current CoV disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic is discussed in this context."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "In addition, the requirements for successful host switches and the implications of virus evolution on disease severity are also highlighted."
For more information on this research see: Zoonotic Origins of Human Coronaviruses. International Journal of Biological Sciences, 2020;16(10):1686-1697. International Journal of Biological Sciences can be contacted at: Ivyspring Int Publ, PO Box 4546, Lake Haven, Nsw 2263, Australia.
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting D.Y. Jin, University of Hong Kong, School of Biomedical Sciences, Pokfulam, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. Additional authors for this research include Z.W. Ye, S.F. Yuan, K.S. Yuen, S.Y. Fung and C.P. Chan.
Keywords for this news article include: Hong Kong, People's Republic of China, Asia, Coronaviridae, Coronavirus, Epidemic, Epidemiology, Health and Medicine, Nidovirales, Pathogenesis, RNA Viruses, Risk and Prevention, Viral, Virology, Zoonoses, Zoonosis, Zoonotic, University of Hong Kong.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC