URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006865921
ID : GPHN2020042900002

Date : 2020-04-28 09:02:00
Title : Africa Americas Asia Europe Our teams everywhere are working to prevent and treat COVID19, and to protect the people already in our care. As the outbreak has evolved, so too have our efforts to support the global response. Take a closer look:
Ariticle : 
Our COVID-19 response focuses on three main priorities:
supporting health authorities to provide care for patients with COVID-19;
protecting people who are vulnerable and at risk;
and keeping essential medical services running.
Across our projects, MSF teams have been improving infection prevention and control measures to protect patients and staff and prevent further spread of the new coronavirus . It is absolutely crucial to protect health workers and patients both in COVID-19 care centres and in all other centres providing vital health services, to prevent health facilities from amplifying the pandemic or being forced to close their doors.
Health systems worldwide are urgently in need of personal protective equipment (PPE) so that essential medical services can stay open. The global shortage of PPE is indicative of the reality for health workers in most countries where we work, who face shortages of crucial items such as masks and aprons, and medical tools such as tests.
Having access to protective equipment, to COVID-19 tests, to oxygen and to drugs for supportive care, becomes more and more urgent as COVID-19 spreads in countries with little access to these tools.
Providing care for patients with COVID-19
In Europe and the US , which are currently the epicentres of the pandemic, MSF’s response focuses on improving care for the most vulnerable and at risk, such as elderly people in care homes, homeless people and migrants living in precarious circumstances, where mortality rates have sometimes reached extraordinary and shocking levels.
Caroline De Cramer, MSF medical adviser Belgium. “In our visits to nursing homes, we always note... a lack of screening for potentially infected residents. It is important to test care home residents as quickly as possible; they are extremely vulnerable because they are doubly at risk.”
MSF teams are also providing care to vulnerable communities in other places, such as in São Paulo, Brazil where we provide medical consultations and help to detect people with COVID-19 amongst homeless people, migrants, refugees, drug users and the elderly, referring patients in more serious conditions to hospitals.
In Spain , Italy , Belgium and France – all currently hotspots of the pandemic – we are also supporting several hospitals which have been overwhelmed by the number of patients with COVID-19. Depending on the specific needs, our support has ranged from providing advice and training on infection control and prevention methods, to setting up wards for patients recovering from COVID-19 and for patients with moderate symptoms of the disease.  
We are caring for patients in dedicated COVID-19 facilities in Burkina Faso , Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) , Cameroon , Côte d’Ivoire , Mali and Pakistan , and are preparing dedicated COVID-19 facilities in Kenya , Lebanon , Niger , Philippines , Senegal, Syria and Yemen , among others. These facilities will care for patients with moderate to severe forms of COVID-19, including those who suffer from acute respiratory problems.
MSF is also sending an oxygen production unit to Burkina Faso, which will be able to produce oxygen in large quantities, for several dozens of patients at the same time. Patients with severe COVID-19 symptoms often suffer from hypoxia (low oxygen levels in body tissue) and need extra oxygen. Where there is little intensive care capacity, a key challenge is to provide patients with sufficient oxygen without the use of invasive techniques.
 
Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic
Médecins Sans Frontières' (MSF) update on the coronavirus disease COVID-19 pandemic.
Dr Idrissa Ouédraogo, MSF medical coordinator in Mali “Point G hospital has an oxygen production unit. We are working on improving the flow of oxygen from the production unit and installing a wall-mounted supply system so that, in the new building, oxygen can be delivered directly to the patient’s bed.”
In most countries where we have programmes, such as in Colombia , Iraq , and Nigeria , we have been opening dedicated wards inside health facilities to help separate COVID-19 patients from non-COVID-19 patients and to extend hospitals’ capacity to provide care.
Similar activities are being carried out around the world. In the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, MSF has re-configured an existing emergency care centre to isolate and refer patients suspected to have COVID-19. In the Nduta refugee camp in Tanzania , where we are the main health provider for 73,000 Burundian refugees, we are building triage and isolation areas in health clinics and in the main MSF hospital where patients with suspected COVID-19 will be referred.
In Bangladesh , where nearly a million Rohingya refugees live in sprawling camps across Cox’s Bazaar district, we have built dedicated COVID-19 wards and isolation rooms in our field hospitals in different locations. The ongoing work will reach capacity for 300 beds.
Providing people with the capacity to protect themselves, and reduce transmission
Worldwide, the response to COVID-19 has relied heavily on largescale lockdowns of the population and physical distancing measures, with the aim of reducing transmission and to prevent health systems from becoming overwhelmed.
However, for people dependent on daily activities for their survival, such as day labourers, and those living in precarious or overcrowded settings, self-isolation and lockdowns are not realistic. In some places, hundreds of thousands, sometimes even millions, of people live in such conditions, without any social safety net. It is crucial to provide people with the means and tools they need to be able to protect themselves and help protect others.
Health promoter Sarir Ahmad is holding an awareness-raising session on COVID-19 in the men’s waiting area outside the birthing unit at Timergara DHQ hospital in Lower Dir. Pakistan, April 2020.
Nasir Ghafoor