URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900406
ID : GPHN2020050400093

Date : 2020-05-04 21:31:00
Title : Old drug brings new hope for critically ill coronavirus patients
Ariticle : 
BMC-run hospitals have successfully tried an immunomodulatory drug to treat extremely critical Covid-19 cases. The drug, which costs Rs 60,000-a-doze, was administered to two patients in Nair Hospital and both showed remarkable recovery, allowing doctors to take them off ventilators. Immunomodulatory drugs modify the immune response or the functioning of the immune system.A third patient – a 35-year-old driver from Worli with no underlying health conditions – was put on the drug at KEM on Saturday. The BMC has now drawn up a list of 125 critically ill patients who could benefit from this drug. However, each case will be evaluated by the municipal corporation’s ethics committee and the concerned patient’s family’s permission will also be sought.The KEM patient was brought in on April 27 and tested positive a day later and his condition has been deteriorating ever since.
 “A team of eight doctors is monitoring his condition 24X7,” said a doctor.While the two at Nair were injected with Cipla’s Tocilizumab, the KEM patient has been given Biocon’s Itolizumab after the Kiran Mazumdar Shaw-led pharma major agreed to provide the drug for trial to BMC free of cost.A task force appointed to control Mumbai’s worryingly high Covid-19 death rate first noticed the drug’s efficacy when it was tried at Nair. The task force’s head Dr Sanjay Oak then discussed the findings with Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. The task force’s biggest worry was the drug’s prohibitive cost. Some patients can require up to three dozes of Itolizumab, taking the cost up to Rs 1.8 lakh.Pardeshi then contacted Mazumdar Shaw who agreed to provide Itolizumab free of cost to BMC on a trial basis.Dr Oak said experts all around the world are trying different drugs and combinations to beat Covid-19. “Several pharma companies are making available existing drugs to hospitals to see if they work on Covid-19,” he said.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said Biocon will now provide the drug to all BMC hospitals treating critical care patients. “KEM will be the principal hospital that will oversee the drug’s use. Our current focus is to prevent Covid-19 deaths in the city,” he said.Kakani pointed out that a majority of Covid-19 deaths have taken place within a day or two of the patient being brought to a hospital. “It is in situations like these we need drugs like Itolizumab. The BMC is also setting up an 800-bed critical care facility at Nair and it will be ready soon,” he said.KEM Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said he is glad that the trial arrangement with Biocon has worked out and the hospital was able to procure the expensive drug. “We are currently facing immense challenges in managing critical care patients. We need all the help we can get,” he said.Dr Deshmukh said patients will be carefully evaluated for liver functions and renal complications before being put on the drug. “A lot of paperwork and documentation will be involved. This is also an important study and we will need a lot of data,” he said.When Mumbai Mirror contacted Mazumdar Shaw in Bangalore on Saturday, she said she would offer a comment only after the trial is over.
For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com