URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006909016
ID : GPHN2020050500134

Date : 2020-05-05 05:02:00
Title : They show how the coronavirus pandemic in Toluca progresses
Ariticle : 
As of this Monday, 124 confirmed cases of covid-19 have been recorded in Toluca, 8 more than Sunday; 180 suspects being monitored, 39 more than Sunday; seven negatives, and six death for the disease. The Mexican capital ranks 10th at the state level and the Seminaries and Heroes of May 5 are the colonies that record the most deaths, with four.
In a message spread through his social networks, the mayor of Toluca, Juan Rodolfo Sánchez Gómez, referred that they already have a control room to monitor the scope of the disease and daily will update the data of various indicators such as healthy population care and containment.
m{804031}"Of the confirmed cases, 60 percent are men and 40 percent in women. In total contagions as of Monday, there are 42.74 percent hospitalized cases and 57.26 percent convalescing in their homes. We have an increase of almost 7.89 percent of daily contagions."In the courtyard of the government palace detailed that the communities, neighborhoods and colonies where there are confirmed, suspicious and death cases by coronavirus are: Historic Center, the traditional neighborhoods –San Luís Obispo, San Miguel- Tree of the Hands, La Maquinita, Colonia Independencia, Colonia San Sebastián, Universidad, Santa María de las Rosas, del Parque, Metropolitana, Colón, Moderna de la Cruz and Felipe Chávez Becerril.
"The Conciliar Seminary, Seminar 2 of March, Seminary the Towers and Heroes of May 5, are the ones that present the highest number of deaths per covid-19, there alone are four."There are also cases in Colonia Morelos, Ciudad Universitaria, Nueva Oxtotiltán, Adolfo López Mateos, Colonia Sánchez, Cacalomacám, Calixtlahuaca, Capultitlán with a death; San Andrés Coexcontitlán, San Antonio Buenavista, San Buenaventura, San Cristóbal Huichochitlán, San Felipe Tlalmimilolpan, San Juan Tilapa, San Lorenzo Tepaltitlán and San Marcos Yachihuacaltepec.
As well as in San Martín Tultepec, San Mateo Otzacatipan, San Mateo Oxtitlán, San Pablo Autopan, San Pedro Totoltepec, Santa Ana Tlapaltitlán, Santa Cruz Atzcapolzaltongo, Santa María Totoltepec, Santiago Miltepec, Santiago Tlacotepec, Santiago Tlaxomulco, Tecaxic, Tlachaloya, Cayetano Morelos and Cerrillo Vista Hermosa.
"It is necessary to understand that it is no longer time to be on the street, there are still colonies, towns and neighborhoods of Toluca where life passes as if nothing will happen."This map, he said, has been integrated by crossing information from the federal, state and municipal government, as well as the civil registry officers and the phone 2 15 35 48 that enabled the local DIF to track certain cases; the same as the covid-19 application information.
In addition, he recalled that they were collating the death records of both the state and the municipal government; in addition to generating links with mayors of some municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of the Toluca Valley such as Metepec, to know the deaths of the Toluqueños and how many people have died from coronavirus in hospitals in the Capital Mexiquense, but live in other municipalities.
MMCF
?