URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006896025
ID : GPHN2020050300065

Date : 2020-05-02 03:04:00
Title : COVID-19 cluster breaks out at a meat processing plant as eight workers test positive for the deadly disease
Ariticle : 
* Victoria health officials confirmed a coronavirus outbreak at a meat facility
* Eight people at the processing plant have tested positive for COVID-19 so far
* The facility, which was not named, has been closed for cleaning and contact
Authorities are investigating a new coronavirus cluster at a meat processing plant in Victoria where eight people have tested positive.
Health Minister Jenny Mikakos confirmed on Saturday there has been an outbreak at an unnamed facility which has been closed for cleaning and contact tracing.
Three staff members at the plant are among the seven new cases of COVID-19 since Friday, bringing the state total to 1,371.
Ms Mikakos said one of the new cases is a returned traveller who is now in hotel quarantine while the others are in self isolation at home.
She declined to name the business or provide further details about its location, but stressed there were no concerns about food safety or risk to the broader community.
'I have no hesitation in naming a facility if I think that that is in the public interests,' Ms Mikakos told reporters, when pressed to provide further details about the business.
It comes after a coronavirus cluster was identified at the Hawthorn Grange aged care home in Melbourne's east, with four residents and one staff member infected.
One of Victoria's seven new coronavirus cases involves a returned traveller in quarantine at a hotel.
'The fact that we've had seven new cases overnight does demonstrate that the situation is still incredibly fragile,' Ms Mikakos said.
All but 71 patients who have contracted the virus in Victoria are recovered.
Of the total number of cases, 141 indicate community transmission. This means someone has been infected without going overseas or coming into contact with another confirmed case.
Twelve people remain in hospital with the virus, including seven in intensive care, and more than 129,000 Victorians have been tested.
The state's death toll from the virus remains at 18.
Restrictions on social gatherings and movement are beginning to ease across some states.
But Victoria is not expected to relax its measures to suppress the spread of coronavirus before a state of emergency expires on May 11.
It comes as police doled out 30 fines in the past 24 hours, including to seven people gathered for a birthday party and others busted for drug offences.