URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912578
ID : GPHN2020050600049

Date : 2020-05-06 18:04:00
Title : COVID-19 CLINIC to ramp up tests
Ariticle : 
New testing clinic in Yamba one of nearly 100 extra in Australia New clinic to ease pressure on hospitals LOWER Clarence residents will be able to get tested for coronavirus and other respiratory conditions at a free clinic in Yamba. North Coast Primary Health Network CEO Julie Sturgess said she was pleased to support the opening of the GP-led Yamba Respiratory Clinic as part of the Australian Government’s $2.4 billion health package in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
The clinic will assess people with respiratory symptoms and, where appropriate, undertake testing to diagnose respiratory cases, including coronavirus, influenza and pneumonia. Results should be available in 24–48 hours.
“The clinic will provide the opportunity for people to undergo assessment and testing in a safe environment, close to home and will protect our most vulnerable community members,” Ms Sturgess said.
“Importantly, it will support local health care services – taking­ the pressure off hospital­s and general practices by providing dedicated treatment to people with mild to moderate symptoms of fever or sore throat, cough, fatigue or shortness of breath.
“I encourage anyone in our community experiencing these symptoms to book an appointment.” Clarence Medical Centre is running the Yamba Respiratory Clinic. Co-owner Angela Bliss said practice staff were pleased to support the area’s health in such a vital manner during these uncertain times.
“Maclean Hospital and all the GP clinics in our area can focus on other patients while we manage any respiratory conditions,” Ms Bliss said. “Being able to assess, swab and provide necessary treatment in one location will certainly help contain the spread of Covid-19.” To make an appointment people should use the online booking system at health.gov.au or phone (02) 5629 7517.
Yamba Respiratory Clinic is open from 9am–5pm, Monday to Friday.The Australian Government is establishing respiratory clinics at key North Coast locations. The majority of clinics will operate out of existing medical practices.