URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1421188.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500047

Date : 2020-05-05 14:51:00
Title : A mayor of the United States said he was infected with the new crown US media in November last year: 2 months earlier than the first case
Ariticle : 
Original title: A mayor of the United States said that he was infected with the new crown virus US media in November last year: 2 months earlier than the first case
[Overseas.net May 5 | War Epidemic Time Zone] According to US media reports, Mayor Michael Melham of Belleville, New Jersey, said on April 30 that he had been infected with the new crown in November 2019 virus. The test results also show that he already has a new coronavirus antibody. This statement by Salem surprised many people, because the first confirmed case of new coronavirus was reported in the United States on January 20 this year, more than 2 months later than the infection date mentioned by Salem.
According to reports from the US &quot;World Daily&quot;, New Jersey local media NJ.com and The Record, Melham recalled that he went to Atlantic City in November 2019 to attend a meeting and returned on November 21. Suddenly feeling uncomfortable, a series of symptoms such as high fever and chills began after returning home, and I could not sleep all night.
The doctor thought he was infected with the flu, and he accepted the statement at the time until the outbreak of the New Coronavirus outbreak in New Jersey. Salem said, &quot;I had suspected that I was infected with the new coronavirus, but they said that the first case in the United States was only discovered in January; but I have also had the flu before, and the symptoms have never been so severe. . &quot;
Despite the official statement that Melham was unlikely to be infected with the new coronavirus at that time, he still insisted on having a blood antibody test. The results obtained on April 29 shocked his doctor: the test showed that the new coronavirus had been found in Melham Antibody.
On April 30, Melham issued a statement announcing the test results, and believed that many of the severe influenzas were likely to be the new coronavirus. &quot;Many people around me told me that they had been sick and had severe symptoms in November and December last year.&quot; Mei Lem also emphasized that the antibodies in his body have existed for a long time, not recently; he has only traveled to Puerto Rico in recent months and he lives alone.
At present, spokespersons of the New Jersey Department of Health and Governor Murphy did not comment on this. (Overseas Net Liu Qiang)
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen