URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-29/doc-iirczymi9038289.shtml
ID : SINA2020042900031

Date : 2020-04-29 15:25:00
Title : Hua Chunying counterattacked Pompeo again: Why not let experts check when the virus appears in the United States?
Ariticle : 
Original title: Hua Chunying fights Pompeio again: Why not let experts check when the virus appears in the United States?
(Observer Network) In response to the recent US Secretary of State Pompeo who frequently denigrated China with the new crown epidemic, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying&#39;s counterattack continues.
At noon on the 29th, Beijing time, Hua Chunying posted a tweet published by Pompeo on the previous day. The latter claimed that China should be &quot;transparent&quot; when looking for the source of the new coronavirus in the world, but the US team cannot come to China Start an investigation.
In response, Hua Chunying responded: &quot;China is open, transparent and responsible in responding to the new crown epidemic. At the end of January, the WHO-China joint investigation operation included two US experts. Why not invite US experts to investigate When did the Ming virus first appear in the United States? The American people need answers. The world also has the right to know. &quot;
Subsequently, Hua Chunying sent another tweet: &quot;The accused Chinese script has been exposed, it is best to stop planned, organized attacks, slander and defamation against China.
It is worth mentioning that last week, the US media &quot;Politico&quot; exposed a 57-page memo within the Republican Party, instructing Republican candidates to respond to the ineffectiveness of the epidemic when they dumped China. At that time, when Hua Chunying forwarded it, the accompanying article said: &quot;Look, it&#39;s a good script!&quot;
Under Hua Chunying&#39;s two latest tweets, many netizens accused Trump and Pompeo of dumping China, obstructing the global anti-epidemic.
For example, a netizen wrote: &quot;When Trump failed, he always accused others, he never knew how to be responsible.&quot;
Another netizen pointed out: &quot;Pompeo has not taken any concrete actions to promote international collaboration and solidarity. On the contrary, he has spared no effort to sow the seeds of division among nations, regardless of the global fight against the virus. damage.&quot;
&quot;Washington&#39;s move will seriously aggravate the chaos in international relations. But for Trump, this has never been a problem. His sole purpose is to dilute his responsibility by inciting huge anger against China, and to set up before the election Set your own agenda. &quot;
On the evening of the 27th, Hua Chunying also tweeted the name Pompeo. At the time, she was tweeting: “Pompeo once again accused Fox of accusing China of concealing the new coronavirus (epidemic situation), but who is disseminating false information? Is it the NRSC (Republican Senate National Committee) memo and &#39;grey Is n’t the zone ’s disclosure clear enough? Stop political tricks or save your energy to save lives. ”
The “gray zone” of the American independent website mentioned in her tweet has recently repeatedly faced conspiracy theories against China. The website&#39;s April 20 article revealed how conservative journalists cooperated with the US government to &quot;legalize&quot; the conspiracy theory of groundless conspiracy. On the 25th, the author of the above article appeared in a &quot;gray zone&quot; interview show, bluntly saying that China could allow the US government and two parties to transfer the real anger that the people should have, that is, the systematic failure of the US capitalist system and the US government. anger.
Editor in charge: Yang Jie