URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9461556.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200027

Date : 2020-05-02 07:32:00
Title : 1 case of newly imported confirmed cases imported from Jilin Province on May 1st
Ariticle : 
[Outbreak notification] Jilin Provincial Health Commission on the outbreak of new coronavirus pneumonia on May 1, 2020
Source: Jilin Provincial Health Commission
At 0-24 May 1st, the province added 1 case of imported imported confirmed cases (Jilin City). One new case was cured and discharged (Changchun City). As of 24:00 on May 1, the province has reported a total of 19 confirmed cases imported from abroad, and a total of 10 cases have been cured and discharged (4 cases in Jilin City, 2 cases in Yanbian Prefecture, 3 cases in Changchun City, and 1 case in Meihekou City). 9 cases were treated (8 cases in Jilin City and 1 case in Changchun City). Among the above-mentioned 307 close contacts who imported confirmed cases overseas, 192 have been dismissed from medical observation and 115 are undergoing isolation medical observation at designated locations.
As of 24:00 on May 1, the province had no new confirmed cases and no new suspected cases for 68 consecutive days. A total of 93 local confirmed cases were reported in the province, 92 cases were cured and discharged, and 1 case died.
From 0-24 May 1st, there were no new asymptomatic infections in the province. As of 24:00 on May 1, the province has reported a total of 6 cases of imported asymptomatic infections, of which 3 cases have been corrected as confirmed cases, 1 case was released from medical observation, and 2 cases of asymptomatic infections are currently available.
The confirmed imported case was from Chuanying District, Jilin City, male, born in 2003. It took U693 flight from Moscow on April 9th, arrived at Chita on April 10th, and arrived at the Manzhouli border by local government bus that night. On April 11, the customs conducted the first nucleic acid and serum antibody test, and the results were all negative. On the same day, they were sent to Manzhouli centralized isolation point for centralized isolation medical observation. The second nucleic acid and serum antibody test was performed on April 13 and the results were all negative. The third nucleic acid and serum antibody test was performed on April 23, and the results were all negative. On April 26, the centralized isolation was lifted in Manzhouli, and the Jilin Provincial Working Group transferred to the centralized isolation point in Chuanying District, Jilin City to continue the centralized isolation and medical observation. The fourth nucleic acid and serum antibody test on April 27 was negative. The fifth nucleic acid and serum antibody test was performed on May 1. The nucleic acid test was positive and the serum antibody was negative. On the same day, they were transported by 120 ambulances to the Jilin City Infectious Disease Hospital for isolation diagnosis and treatment. The city expert group consulted and diagnosed as a confirmed case. The case returned from Manchuria to Kyrgyzstan, implemented &quot;closed loop&quot; closed transfer, isolation, no self-traveling activities within the province. Twenty-one people in close contact with the case were transported in the same vehicle, all of them were concentrated and isolated for medical observation at the designated location.
Remind the general public that the current situation of foreign epidemic situation is grim and the input risks are increasing. It is necessary to raise awareness of prevention, do personal protection and protect the health of yourself and your family.
If you are a returnee abroad, you should take the initiative to go to the local community to do screening registration, cooperate with professionals to carry out medical observation, and report any acute respiratory symptoms such as fever and cough immediately to the local community, and go to a local designated medical institution for a hot consultation See a doctor.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern