URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9351095.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100025

Date : 2020-05-01 09:39:00
Title : Russian Prime Minister Infected, Putin Sighed Long
Ariticle : 
Original Title: Russian Prime Minister Infected, Putin Sighed Long
Russian Prime Minister Mishustin reported to President Putin on April 30 local time that his own new crown virus test was positive.
The Kremlin website released an announcement saying that Mishustin said in a video meeting with Putin that he had just learned that his new coronavirus test was positive. According to the requirements of the Russian Federal Consumer Protection and Public Welfare Supervision Bureau, he needs Isolate yourself and follow your doctor&#39;s advice.
Mishustin said that the Russian government will continue to operate normally, and he will maintain communication with government colleagues and Putin by phone or video. At the same time, he proposed that the first deputy prime minister Belousov act as prime minister.
After learning about this, Putin sighed in the connection: &quot;Dear Mishustin, what happened to you may happen to anyone. I keep saying this. You are a very active person, thank you The work done so far. You and other government officials are especially at high risk because you cannot avoid direct contact with others in the process of making decisions. So I am not surprised, but I assure you, I want to tell you What&#39;s more, I hope you can maintain a good working condition and actively participate in the work as soon as possible. &quot;
Mishustin called on Russian citizens to treat the epidemic cautiously, stay at home during the May holiday and observe the necessary restrictions. He said that he believes that Russia can overcome the epidemic and return to normal life. The government will take all necessary measures for this.
Putin signed an order that day, and Belovosov will serve as the Russian Prime Minister.
Source: Xinhua News Agency, Leo, Haike News, Check News
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu