URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9431968.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200003

Date : 2020-05-01 21:24:00
Title : On May 1st, Heilongjiang was informed by the Provincial Party Committee Secretary to go to the hospital for supervision
Ariticle : 
Original title: On May 1st, Heilongjiang was notified by the whole country, and the secretary of the provincial party committee went to the hospital for supervision
Source: Beijing Youth Daily
Written by | Hui Hui
Today&#39;s topic is Heilongjiang.
Many people may have noticed that on the first day of the May Day holiday, the State Council issued a circular on the joint group of joint prevention and control mechanisms for the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak.
The name of the notice is &quot;Notice on the Situation of New Coronary Pneumonia Aggregation in Heilongjiang Province.&quot;
On May 1st, Zhang Qingwei, secretary of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee and the provincial leading team for the response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, went to Xiangfang District, Harbin to supervise and inspect the prevention and control of the epidemic.
　　
The report mentioned that since April 2020, local clustered epidemics associated with imported cases of new coronary pneumonia have occurred in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang Province, especially involving multiple hospitals with nosocomial infections that lasted for a long time and many infections. The bad social impact has brought new pressure to consolidate the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements.
A set of data can also be corroborated.
Today, the National Health and Welfare Committee spokesperson Mi Feng said that in April, a total of 131 newly diagnosed local cases were reported throughout the country, of which more than 60% came from the local epidemic in Heilongjiang.
The above circular also mentioned four problems exposed by Heilongjiang Province:
Insufficient understanding of epidemic prevention and control situation
Pre-hospital prevention and control measures have weak links
Nucleic acid testing failed to be carried out in time
Poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures
The report mentioned that Harbin and Mudanjiang, as port cities, failed to fully understand the severe situation of &quot;foreign defense imports and internal defense rebounds&quot;, lacked understanding of the risk of foreign imports, and there was war exhaustion and paralysis.
On April 30th, the Heilongjiang side once held a meeting to review the &quot;In-depth Implementation of the Spirit of the Important Speech of General Secretary Jin Ping, and the Work Plan for Large-scale Investigation of Vulnerabilities and Shortcomings.&quot;
The plan is clear, and a comprehensive short-term investigation of loopholes in epidemic prevention and control should be carried out across the province.
The meeting also mentioned that we must resolutely overcome the numbness of the paralysis and let go of the fluke, and tighten the string of epidemic prevention and control at all times.
　　
Just today, Zhang Qingwei, Secretary of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee, went to Xiangfang District of Harbin City to supervise and inspect the epidemic prevention and control work. In Xiangfang District, Zhang Qingwei went to several places:
Heilongjiang Provincial Forest Industry General Hospital (Provincial Red Cross Hospital)
The First Affiliated Hospital of Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine
Hotel Bremen
One fact is that the hospital is the focus of the large-scale investigation of loopholes and shortcomings in Heilongjiang Province. In the above-mentioned circular of the State Council, many problems in the hospital were also mentioned.
For example, relevant hospitals mistakenly believe that the new coronavirus infection can be screened out completely by customs and community prevention and control, and the possibility of a clustered epidemic in the hospital is extremely small and there is a fluke.
As another example, the relevant hospitals have not fully implemented the state&#39;s requirements on hospital prevention and control.
The prevention and control measures of key departments such as pre-examination and triage, and hot clinics are almost ineffective, and appointments and treatments cannot be effectively carried out, and patients are rationally diverted
Disinfection and isolation measures are not in place, and zoning requirements are not implemented
The management of the ward was seriously dereliction of duty, and no strict escort and visitation system was established.
Medical personnel have weak protection awareness, weak sensitivity, and inadequate training, etc.
The content of Zhang Qingwei&#39;s supervision and inspection this time is &quot;pre-examination and triage, medical management and other work.&quot;
According to local media, when referring to the current Heilongjiang epidemic prevention and control situation, Zhang Qingwei said, &quot;still severe and under great pressure.
Zhang Qingwei demanded that leading cadres at all levels should act quickly, take the lead to go deep into the front line and fight forward, earnestly carry out large-scale investigations, find loopholes in time, increase rectification efforts, and accelerate the completion of shortcomings.
Hospitals have a great responsibility in epidemic prevention and control, and must not be a bit ambiguous. They must persevere and do not relax. They must not only fight the blockade, but also do the normal epidemic prevention and control. Responsible personnel of each post must be dead and guarded, and strengthen inspections and inspections. To ensure that all rules and regulations are implemented.
Zhang Qingwei mentioned that strictly implement the system of appointment registration, pre-examination and triage, referral and referral, strictly implement the diagnosis and treatment process, strengthen the management and control of inpatients and accompanying staff, standardize the management of wards, accelerate the improvement of nucleic acid detection capabilities, and do a good job of medical elimination in key parts , Resolutely prevent cross infection in hospitals.
He said that the medical institutions and relevant responsible persons who failed to implement the relevant regulations were seriously dealt with.
　　　
Zheng Zhijun noted that Wang Zhaoli, member of the Standing Committee of the Heilongjiang Provincial Committee and Secretary of the Harbin Municipal Committee, also participated in the above-mentioned supervision and inspection.
On the same day, Wang Zhaoli also went to some communities in Xiangfang District to supervise and inspect the epidemic prevention and control work.
According to the &quot;Harbin Daily&quot; disclosure, at the scene, Wang Zhaoli said that leading cadres at all levels should shoulder their responsibilities and strengthen their responsibilities. They should go to the grassroots level and take a look at the scene. If problems are found, they will be resolved in a timely manner.
He said, &quot;Community prevention and control can not be pretended, take the form, the inspection must be inspected, the inspection must be inspected, the inspection must be inspected, and all measures and requirements must be seriously implemented.&quot;
Wang Zhaoli demanded that there are many old communities in Harbin, and it is difficult to prevent and control. It is necessary to mobilize community residents to guard the gates of the community and guard their own doors together.
It is strictly forbidden for outsiders to enter, and it is advocated that residents do not come together during the May 1st, do not gather, gather together and do not gather together, and strictly prevent the risk of epidemic transmission caused by gathering.
Recently, Wang Zhaoli and Mayor Sun Zhe went out to investigate many times.
On April 28, Wang Zhaoli went to the Harbin Disease Control Center. On April 29, Wang Zhaoli went to Daowai District to conduct on-site investigation to understand the prevention and control work.
In the past few days, Sun Zhe also went to Daoli District, Daowai District, Nangang District, Xiangfang District and other major urban areas for spot checks and supervised the epidemic prevention and control work, and exchanged with the community cadres, individual industrial and commercial households and other normal measures for epidemic prevention and control Suggestions from the masses.
Information | Heilongjiang Daily Harbin Government Website Harbin Daily etc.
　　　
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming