URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-04/doc-iircuyvi1296743.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400054

Date : 2020-05-04 17:13:00
Title : Wuhan will strengthen psychological adjustment for special groups such as children of first-line medical staff
Ariticle : 
Original title: Wuhan will strengthen psychological adjustment for special groups such as children of front-line medical staff
Beijing News (Reporter Xu Meihui) At 4 pm on May 4, the Hubei Province New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemic Prevention and Control Headquarters held the 91st press conference to introduce the preparations for the resumption of the third grade in Wuhan.
Xia Chunyin, deputy director of the Wuhan Municipal Education Bureau, introduced that the third grade of high school resumes and resumes classes on May 6, which is the new starting point of the city&#39;s basic education after the epidemic. On the premise of upholding the normalization of epidemic prevention and control, Wuhan will focus on three aspects.
On the one hand, Wuhan will do a good job of linking up the resumption of classes. Strengthen the effective connection between classroom teaching and online teaching, as soon as possible to improve students&#39; learning and life adaptability, and help students achieve a smooth transition from online learning to school learning. For students who have difficulty in returning to school, they provide individualized guidance and help through online and offline channels in a timely manner to guide them to return to the school learning environment and learning method as soon as possible.
On the other hand, Wuhan will do a good job of maintaining the mental health of teachers and students. Put teacher and student mental health counseling in a prominent and important position, timely understand the psychological state of teachers and students before returning to school, strengthen the psychological health education of teachers and students after returning to school, popularize mental health common sense. The psychological adjustment of special groups such as teachers and students in grades, teachers and students who lost their loved ones due to the epidemic, and teachers and students who have recovered from illnesses provides guidance and services.
In addition, Wuhan will also do a good job of coordinating and adjusting the enrollment of college entrance examinations, as well as work related to college entrance examinations, high school entrance examinations, admission to compulsory sections, and admission to pre-school education.
Xia Chunyin said that the current college entrance examination policy has been announced, and the secondary entrance examination policy is being stepped up and will be released as soon as possible. Other relevant policies will be released in a timely manner.
Beijing News reporter Xu Meihui
　　 
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming