URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9797996.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400039

Date : 2020-05-04 13:45:00
Title : Purely politically motivated! U.S. media from the bottom of the &quot;new crown virus originated in the laboratory&quot; conspiracy theory
Ariticle : 
Original title: Observation in North America 丨 Purely politically motivated! U.S. media from the bottom of the &quot;new crown virus originated in the laboratory&quot; conspiracy theory
As the epidemic situation in the United States becomes more and more serious, there are more and more domestic accusations against the Trump administration&#39;s ineffectiveness. However, instead of failing to listen to public opinion and adjust policies, Trump and his supporters have “scrapped the pot” everywhere—from the US Congress to the WHO, all of whom Trump has accused. Recently, China has become his &quot;smoke bomb&quot; to evade responsibility, accused of &quot;making viruses in the laboratory&quot;.
As soon as the conspiracy theory came out, it was rejected by many media and experts.
A few days ago, the US news website BuzzFeed published an investigation report: &quot;Scientists have not found evidence of the new corona virus leaking from the Wuhan laboratory, and Trump supporters are spreading rumors without any care. The report pointed out that the &quot;new coronavirus laboratory manufacturing&quot; is pure conspiracy theory, and those who advocate this view are only out of political interests.
&quot;Conspiracy theory&quot; how to enter the room
According to BuzzFeed, an extremely provocative and unproven theory has recently intensified in conservative media such as Fox News in the United States: The new crown virus originated in Chinese laboratories. Fox News said that COVID-19&#39;s new coronavirus &quot;probably&quot; originated from the Wuhan Virus Research Institute, and said that &quot;Patient Zero&quot; was working in a virus laboratory, thus spreading the virus to the Wuhan people. BuzzFeed reports that the theory is particularly attractive to Trump and his supporters because it presents them with a &quot;scapegoat.&quot;
It is precisely because the Trump administration caught the &quot;scapegoat&quot; that &quot;the virus came from the Wuhan Laboratory&quot;, so, under the impetus of the relevant promoters, various conspiracy theories related to this have been on the stage. There are even more bizarre versions, such as false accusations that the new coronavirus was intentionally leaked as a biological weapon.
In addition, the far-right financial news site Zero Hedge claimed that without evidence, scientists at the Wuhan Virus Research Institute had created the new coronavirus. Zero Hedge&#39;s social network account was permanently closed due to false information.
Rumors are dismissed: they simply do n’t know what they ’re talking about
BuzzFeed reports that all the above conspiracy theories have been quickly rejected by scientists.
Jeremy Konyndyk, a senior policy researcher at the US Center for Global Development, has bluntly criticized on social networks that despite the Trump administration&#39;s efforts to find a connection between the new coronavirus and Chinese laboratories, they have found nothing. Corningick said that no matter whether it was deliberately created or accidentally leaked, there is currently no evidence that the new coronavirus was produced in the laboratory.
Vincent Racaniello, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, also said that he is even reluctant to call the &quot;viral laboratory manufacturing&quot; view a conspiracy theory, because &quot;theories&quot; are based on actual As a result, and the view that the virus came from the laboratory, to be honest, I think it is based on politics. &quot;
Professor Recanalo also added: &quot;This could not have leaked from the laboratory. If it was a laboratory leak, then the researchers should have been infected.&quot;
Professor Recanaro also refuted two conspiracy theories-the virus was made in the laboratory, and the virus leaked from the laboratory. The professor said: &quot;Those who advocate this idea have no idea what they are talking about. No one can design such a virus at all.&quot;
Authoritative expert criticized: it is simply too absurd
Conspiracy theories have also been criticized by the White House. According to U.S. Business Insider, Dr. Fuch, a member of the White House Working Group on Outbreak Response and an authoritative infectious disease expert in the United States, was asked about the conspiracy theory that the existing evidence on the origin of the virus &quot;fully conforms to the theory of infection from animals to humans.&quot; . Fuch said that research on the viral genome proved very clearly that the virus was transmitted from animals to humans, rather than being artificial.
Dr. Kristian Andersen, who specializes in immunology and microbiology at the Scripps Research Institute in the United States, published a paper in the Journal of Natural Medicine, comparing the new coronavirus with six other coronaviruses known to infect human Then it was concluded that the new coronavirus is not artificial.
The BuzzFeed report concluded that no matter how the science explained it, for Trump and his fanatical supporters, the suggestion that &quot;the virus originated in the Chinese laboratory&quot; was out of political interests. The report pointed out that although scientists have not been able to determine the source of the virus, what is certain is that the only reason why the rumors can spread so quickly is because Trump.
(CCTV reporter Yin Yue)
Responsible Editor: Van Stern