URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi0943557.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200023

Date : 2020-05-02 08:31:00
Title : Three fatal mistakes made by Trump!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Three fatal mistakes made by Trump!
Source: Niu Qin
(One)
Trump went viral again. On the first day of May, I scolded NBC and CNN like this:
NBC and fake news CNN are doing their best to say good things about China. They are Chinese puppets and want to do business there. They use American on-demand to help China. Public enemy!
Ruthless enough!
If you guessed right, this is the first time that because of reporting on China, NBC and CNN have been scolded by the US President as a dog: why do n’t you have a stand, just tell the truth!
What is the motivation? Well, you are &quot;Chinese puppets&quot; and &quot;public enemy&quot;!
NBC and CNN looked at each other. But do n’t be surprised. The big president has launched a ruthless campaign, not to mention you NBC and CNN, even the Voice of America has been scolded as “Communist”, who told you to say good things about China!
What did they say?
I quickly went to CNN and looked at it. No wonder Trump was very angry, and CNN will launch a blockbuster investigation program &quot;Pandemic and President&quot;. In the 30-second trailer, the first picture is Trump ’s announcement: everything is under our control, and our US problem is very minor.
CNN Voice-over: Is that true?
In the second screen, Trump gestured and said: One day, the virus will miraculously disappear ...
Then there are various investigations by CNN, all kinds of faces, because the result is very simple, the diagnoses in the United States are now broken by 1 million, and the deaths exceed 60,000, which is unique in the world!
It can be said that this is Trump&#39;s first fatal mistake: all kinds of misjudgments, all kinds of carelessness, eventually led to an irreversible disaster.
Therefore, Pelosi, the speaker of the US House of Representatives, scolded earlier that Trump said that it is not the truth at all.
In January of this year, Trump received warnings about the epidemic. He ignored these warnings and took no effective action, causing unnecessary deaths and disasters.
Trump told his most loyal followers that the pandemic is a scam, it will magically disappear, but the epidemic is life-threatening and paves the way for economic disaster ...
The Internet has memories. On the one hand, the epidemic data in the United States are constantly soaring; on the other hand, it is the media that broadcast Trump ’s previous erroneous words over and over again.
There are blind people, but more people have sharp eyes.
Whose responsibility is this? Is it China&#39;s responsibility, WHO&#39;s responsibility?
The pot cannot be shaken out. But CNN, if you do this, can Trump not be angry?
(two)
Trump&#39;s second fatal error, it is even more dramatic: injection of disinfectant kills the virus.
Trump called for the honest Americans to act immediately, even if disinfectant manufacturers urgently remind that this can only be used externally, not internally! But this really couldn&#39;t stop the enthusiasm of Americans. A leather tube was connected to the disinfectant, and a needle was inserted into his arm.
Trump&#39;s remedies + American native law, the heat is up in the sky.
Anyway, a lot of photos appeared on American social media.
The results can be imagined. In New York, Maryland, Illinois, etc., the consultation phone for the availability of disinfectants kept ringing, and the government departments were too busy. The anti-epidemic work is already annoying enough, and now a tonic of &quot;disinfectant orally&quot; is still tossed.
Alas, Li Jiaqi needs money for live broadcast, and Trump live broadcast is terrible.
This became the biggest joke in the United States against the epidemic. So much so that Trump had to &quot;clarify&quot;: I said that at the time, but I was taunting you media and seeing the reaction of these media ...
Well, it&#39;s you guys who made the media go crazy. The American media is also stunned. Tens of thousands of Americans are dead. You can make a joke about the big deal of treatment, President!
The final result, Trump&#39;s anti-epidemic press conference that must be held every night, immediately stopped. His assistants are also anxious: President, if you run the train full of mouths like this, not only can you not increase your support, but you will soon lose the election ...
According to CNN&#39;s disclosure, after this incident, Trump roared angrily, and also picked up the phone and scolded his campaign manager Brad Pascal into the microphone ...
The details are always the most impressive. When people look back on the epidemic in the future, many of Trump&#39;s words may be forgotten, but suggesting that Americans inject disinfectants will definitely be written in history books as the biggest political joke.
Classic spread forever!
But for Trump, this detail is really a fatal mistake.
(three)
The third fatal error, Trump publicly lied! International lies!
Of course, according to American media, Trump ’s lies are not news. According to the &quot;Washington Post&quot; statistics, in the 298 days after Trump was sworn in, he lied a total of 1,628 times, an average of 5.5 times a day ...
But some big lies are international jokes.
The latest one is that at the White House press conference, the reporter asked: Do you think the existing intelligence has a strong credibility to show that the virus came from &quot;Wuhan Laboratory&quot; ...
Trump replied: Yes, I think it is.
From the live video, the reporter clearly felt unbelief, and also specifically reminded Trump: Just a few hours ago, the US National Intelligence Director ’s Office issued a statement saying that the US intelligence community agreed with a broad scientific consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified ...
Trump looked surprised and asked again and again: Who posted it?
But in the end, he still concluded: I have evidence!
Where is the evidence? He replied: I am not allowed to tell you this.
At first, I was very worried, honest Americans, don&#39;t believe the president again!
Hurry up and look at the American social network. Good guys, it can be said that 99.99% of the voices think the president is lying. Under the relevant news of NBC, the top two messages are:
Less than seven days ago, he also recommended injection of disinfectant. Do we really care what he said?
This guy may also say that windmills can cause cancer ...
NBC, know why the president called you a &quot;Chinese puppet&quot; or &quot;public enemy&quot;!
Frankly speaking, from the perspective of the political ecology of the United States, especially considering the special ecology before the election, scolding China is the common choice of many politicians, and Trump is no exception.
But if you scold, you have to scold it to the point. Such outrageous things, even things that the CIA in the United States can&#39;t afford to see. The president still thinks it is true, that is an international joke.
More than 10 years ago, holding a test tube filled with washing powder, claiming that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction, this became the biggest stain on Powell&#39;s life; more than 10 years later, a problem that scientists do not believe, President Trump believes that he has evidence!
Three fatal mistakes, the first two are domestic jokes, and the third is international jokes.
I have to say, without such a Trump, how boring our world would be!
But it has to be said that as long as he can shake the pot, Trump can tell a bigger joke and take more drastic action.
A recent commentary from The New York Times said: As long as he believes that it is profitable, this president can say everything and get everything done. He is not a principled person, and he does not pay attention to any ethics ...
So that on May 1st, at the White House press conference, a reporter asked the female spokesperson: Can you swear never to lie to us in this room?
Between people, at least the trust is gone!
The latest situation is that, using unprovoked accusations, according to US media reports, the Trump administration is brewing sanctions against China ... I do n’t know if it is true or not, anyway, the US News says so. So, we see that the U.S. stock market fell on Thursday and plunged again on Friday ...
Therefore, CNN publicly warned: Trump chose to restart the trade war with China at the worst time. Economists warned that such a strategy is counterproductive and may turn the current severe recession into a comprehensive depression ...
CNN, no wonder Trump called you a &quot;Chinese puppet&quot; or &quot;public enemy&quot;!
The US stock market plummeted, but what about the Chinese stock market?
Many Americans are surprised. According to the truth, China&#39;s stock market must plummet.
So many friends lamented: The CIA was indeed too delinquent, and did not report to Trump the accurate information on China&#39;s long holiday.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu