URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0878237.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100068

Date : 2020-05-01 17:38:00
Title : Fearing that the federal government &quot;robbed&quot; the ruthless governor of the United States actually dispatched the armed forces
Ariticle : 
Original title: Fearing that the federal government will &quot;rob&quot;, the ruthless governor of the United States actually dispatched armed forces ...
In order to avoid the requisition of the kit by the federal government, Maryland, USA had to take &quot;special measures.&quot;
Recently, the governor of Maryland, Larry Hogan, said in an interview that in order to protect nearly 500,000 new coronavirus detection kits from the federal government, he had to take some &quot;special measures.&quot;
According to reports from the Huffington Post and the Washington Post, in April, Maryland purchased nearly 500,000 kits from South Korea. Currently, the state&#39;s National Guard guards these kits in a secret location to prevent them from being requisitioned by the Trump administration.
On Thursday (April 30) local time, Hogan said in an interview with the Washington Post that he had taken a series of &quot;special measures&quot; to ensure that these kits remain in Maryland. For example, at the beginning, he let a plane take off from South Korea land directly at Baltimore / Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport instead of Washington Dulles International Airport. In addition, the plane was greeted by a Maryland National Guard The huge team with the state police can greatly reduce the chance of the FBI seizing the kits. Talking about the reasons for such caution, Hogan said it would save the lives of thousands of citizens in Maryland.
US media said that Hogan ’s concerns about these materials are not unreasonable. Since the outbreak of the new crown epidemic in the United States, the US Federal Emergency Management Agency and the states have often scrambled for materials, and the news of &quot;hijacking&quot; protective equipment has been exposed. Hogan said, &quot;We want to make sure that the plane takes off safely from South Korea and land safely in the United States. For those who will interfere with our transportation of materials to those in need, we must always be prepared.&quot; As of now, the White House has not yet Hogan responded to this remark.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yiling