URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0916136.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200014

Date : 2020-05-01 23:29:00
Title : Trump insisted that the virus originated in the Wuhan laboratory? US media discloses insider
Ariticle : 
Original title: Do not believe the conclusions of the intelligence community, Trump insisted that the virus originated from the Wuhan laboratory? US media discloses insider
As the epidemic has swept the world, the origin of the new crown virus has undoubtedly become one of the most concerned topics in the current public opinion, while some politicians in the United States have just spread the &quot;Wuhan Laboratory Origin Theory&quot;.
On April 30, local time, the Office of the Director of the National Intelligence Agency issued a statement on its official website, clearly stating that the intelligence community agrees with the broad consensus in the scientific community that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified.
However, at the White House press conference held later that day, Trump still insisted that he had evidence that he had evidence that the new coronavirus was related to the Wuhan laboratory. But when the reporter subsequently asked what evidence he was making this argument, Trump refused to inform.
Many foreign media have reported on &quot;Trump can&#39;t give evidence&quot;.
US CNBC stated that Trump suspected that the new coronary pneumonia outbreak came from a Chinese laboratory, but provided no evidence.
CNN of the United States pointed out that Trump and the international community were &quot;singing the opposite&quot;, claiming that he had seen evidence that he &quot;highly believed&quot; that the new coronavirus originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China, but refused to provide any details to support his claim.
The US &quot;Business Insider&quot; website stated that Trump claimed that he had evidence that the new coronavirus originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, but he was &quot;not allowed to tell&quot; what evidence.
A statement from US. intelligence agencies debunked conspiracy theories about the origin of the novel coronavirus, concluding that it was &quot;not manmade or genetically modified.&quot;
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence released the statement Thursday. The conclusions were consistent with a worldwide scientific consensus that includes the World Health Organization (WHO).
The announcement came as the Trump administration continues to push an unproven allegation that the virus may have escaped from a Chinese government research lab in Wuhan, the then epicenter of the outbreak in China.
Trump claimed later on Thursday that he has reason showing that the coronavirus originated from the lab in China, but provided no evidence.
On the same day, the New York Times published an article entitled &quot;Trump administration officials allegedly put pressure on intelligence personnel to link viruses to laboratories.&quot; The article quoted several current and former US officials as saying that senior Trump administration officials asked US intelligence agencies to find evidence to support the &quot;unfounded theory&quot; that the Wuhan laboratory is the source of the new coronavirus. The US Secretary of State and former CIA Director Pompeo is the one who spearheaded the pressure.
It is reported that some American intelligence analysts have expressed their concerns about this action, saying that pressure from senior US government officials will distort the assessment of the virus (origin) and will be used as a &quot;political weapon&quot; against China.
CIA analysts have repeatedly stated that they did not find any evidence to support the &quot;Wuhan Laboratory Virus Origin Theory&quot;, and intelligence personnel also pointed out that the origin of the virus is &quot;fundamentally speaking, a scientific problem that cannot be easily solved by spy.&quot;
The report also pointed out that any intelligence reports that blamed the outbreak on Chinese institutions &quot;may seriously damage relations with China in the next few years.&quot; Trump administration officials may use this conclusion to drive other countries to publicly blame China for the death of new coronary pneumonia even if the source of the virus cannot be determined.
Meanwhile, some US. intelligence analysts have expressed concern that pressure from senior Trump administration officials to link the coronavirus with a Chinese lab will distort assessments about the virus and could be used as a political weapon, the New York Times said in a report on Thursday.
According to the report, CIA. analysts have repeatedly told Trump aides that they “did not have the evidence to support any one theory [linking the virus to Chinese labs].” Besides, US. intelligence officials have noticed continuously that the origins of the virus “is fundamentally a scientific question that cannot be solved easily by spycraft.”
The report also pointed out that any American intelligence report blaming a Chinese institution for the outbreak “could significantly harm relations with China for years to come,” for fear that Trump administration officials could “use it to try to prod other nations to publicly hold China accountable for coronavirus deaths &quot;even when the exact origins cannot be determined.
In response to the rumors that &quot;the new crown virus originated from the leakage of the Wuhan Virus Research Institute&quot;, Yuan Zhiming, a researcher and director of the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory, said in an interview with CGTN that the virus will never leak from the research institute where it is located.
Click on the video for details ↑↑↑
Experts from many countries, including Professor Lipkin of Columbia University, known as the &quot;virus hunter&quot;, have repeatedly stated that the virus originated in animals and cannot be artificially produced, and there is currently no evidence to prove that the virus is from the laboratory. Leaked.
Click to view ↑↑↑ New crown virus originated from Wuhan laboratory? The international community strongly refuted: nonsense!
The director of one of the Chinese labs in question rejected the idea in an interview with CGTN. Yuan Zhiming of the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory told CGTN that: &quot;There is absolutely no way that the virus originated from our institute.&quot;
In correspondence sent to one of world&#39;s leading science journals, Nature Medicine, leading virologists from the US. , The UK and Australia expressed skepticism of the genetic manipulation theory. Having analyzed the pathogen&#39;s genome, they said: &quot;We do not believe that any type of laboratory based-scenario is plausible.&quot;
At the same time, the scientific community has been conducting scientific research on virus tracing. Researchers from many countries said that the local new coronary pneumonia epidemic was not caused by cases imported from China.
Previously, California, the United States, has been studying whether the epidemic has already existed locally and spread widely → American doctor: California&#39;s new coronary pneumonia epidemic may be traced back to December last year
A recent study conducted by French scientists also showed that the French new coronary pneumonia epidemic was not caused by imported cases from China or Italy, but from an unidentified strain spread locally. The research was completed by researchers at the Pasteur Institute and published on bioRxiv.org as a pre-publisher on April 24.
The researchers sequenced and compared 97 virus samples collected in France from January 24 to March 24, and found that the new coronavirus popular in France belongs to different branches, and neither imported cases from China nor Italy the same.
A genetic study done by French scientists revealed that the COVID-19 outbreak in France was caused by a locally circulating strain with unknown origin, rather than cases imported from China or Italy.
The pre-print study, entitled &quot;Introductions and early spread of SARS-CoV-2 in France&quot;, was done by researchers from the Pasteur Institute in Paris, a research center at the forefront against infectious disease, and published on biorxiv.org on April 24.
The researchers sequenced 97 genomes from samples collected among infected cases in France between January 24 to March 24, and found that the dominant strain of the outbreak in the country was linked to a genetic group, or clade G, that was not from China or Italy .
Among the virus samples circulating in France today, the earliest representative sample was collected on February 19 from a patient who had no history of travel at home and abroad and had no contact with travelers returning from overseas. The patient died on February 25, followed by a large outbreak in France.
The researchers concluded that the epidemic has quietly spread in France as early as February, and most patients are asymptomatic or mild.
One of the earliest representatives of the French clade was sampled on February 19 from a patient who had no travel history and no contact with travelers returning from overseas. The patient passed away on February 25 and then came a wave of outbreaks in France.
&quot;As the earliest representative of clade G had no history of travel or contact with returning travelers, we can infer that the virus was silently circulating in France in February, a scenario compatible with the large proportion of mild or asymptomatic diseases, and observations in other European countries. &quot;
Canadian media also reported that the country ’s early cases were not from China.
Canada ’s National Post reported on April 30 that according to data from the provinces with the highest number of new coronary pneumonia cases in the country, Canada ’s early cases of new coronavirus infection came from the United States, not China. Data from Canada&#39;s largest provinces show it was American travelers, not Chinese, who brought the novel coronavirus to Canadian shores, according to the National Post Friday.
The National Post in Canada asked for data on the origins of travel-related cases in four provinces that have seen the majority of Canada&#39;s COVID-19 cases.
　　
Editor in charge: Zhang Jianli