URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0810073.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100020

Date : 2020-05-01 07:49:00
Title : Refund of accommodation fee! Another provincial notice, tuition fees also have regulations
Ariticle : 
Original title: Refund of accommodation fees! Another provincial notice, tuition fees also have regulations
Recently, the Zhejiang Provincial Department of Education Office, the Zhejiang Provincial Development and Reform Commission Office, and the Zhejiang Provincial Department of Finance Office issued a notice to do a good job in charge management during the prevention and control of epidemics in schools and kindergartens at all levels.
The notice states:
　　
Schools around the country must strictly follow the &quot;Guiding Opinions on the Comprehensive Implementation of Online Education and Teaching in Primary and Secondary Schools in the Province During the Delayed Start of Epidemic Prevention&quot; (Zhejiao Prevention and Control Office Letter [2020] No. 7) and &quot;New Coronavirus in Zhejiang Province&quot; The Notice of the Leading Group Office of Pneumonia Epidemic Prevention and Control Work on Doing a Good Job in the Beginning of the Spring Semester of 2020 (Provincial Epidemic Prevention and Control Office [2020] No. 77) requires that online teaching and the start of the resumption of classes should be done, and no advance receipts across school years or semesters are allowed Tuition fees (teaching fees), those who have not started school or have not started classes (including online courses) shall not be charged tuition fees (teaching fees).
　　　
The school collects accommodation fees according to the actual occurrence principle, which is calculated according to 10 months per school year (5 months per semester), and the excess will be refunded to the students. If the actual residence time at the school is less than one month, half a month will be calculated for less than 15 days, and one month will be calculated for more than 15 days.
　　
Beginning in the spring semester of 2020, according to the &quot;Zhejiang Province Student Financial Assistance Objects Identification Measures&quot;, all the approved student financial assistance objects will be implemented according to the semester of pre-school education and child care fee reduction, compulsory education for students with financial difficulties and nutritious meals, ordinary high schools Student subsidy policies such as free tuition and miscellaneous fees and national bursaries, vocational tuition exemptions for secondary vocational schools, national bursaries and bursaries for undergraduates (graduate students) awards.
Resolutely investigate and punish various illegal and arbitrary charges
Schools shall not add additional charging items, expand the scope of charging, raise the charging standards without authorization in the name of epidemic prevention and control, and shall not charge illegally. We must resolutely investigate and punish all kinds of violations and charges, and seriously hold the parties responsible.
China Youth Daily (id: zqbcyol) noticed that recently there have been many notices of charge management during the epidemic and refund of accommodation fees.
　　　
Accommodation fees cannot be received in advance across school years or semesters, and accommodation fees cannot be collected in advance without accommodation. If the accommodation fee has been charged according to the academic year, the school must refund the overpaid portion to the student at the end of the 2020 spring semester. The accommodation fee is calculated as 10 months per academic year (5 months per semester). During the epidemic prevention and control period, the school shall calculate the accommodation fee based on the student&#39;s actual stay in the school. If the residence time at the school is less than 1 month, 15 days (including 15 days) will be calculated as 1 month, and those with 15 days or less will be calculated as half a month.
Schools shall not add additional charging items, expand charging ranges, and raise charging standards in the name of epidemic prevention and control, and strictly prohibit illegal charging.
　　
Tuition fees (teaching fees) cannot be received in advance across school years or semesters.
Accommodation fees cannot be received in advance across school years or semesters, and accommodation fees cannot be collected in advance without accommodation. The accommodation fee has been collected according to the school year. Based on the actual length of stay and comprehensive consideration of personnel and depreciation costs directly related to the dormitory, the school will settle and refund at the end of the spring semester.
Schools shall not add additional charging items, expand the scope of charging, raise the charging standards without authorization in the name of epidemic prevention and control, and shall not charge illegally.
　　　
Strictly implement the regulations on tuition fees (teaching fees) of the Ministry of Education.
Strictly implement the accommodation fee refund requirements. The accommodation fee is calculated as 10 months per academic year (5 months per semester). During the epidemic prevention and control period, the school shall calculate the accommodation fee based on the student&#39;s actual stay in the school. If the residence time at the school is less than one month, those with more than 15 days (including 15 days) will be counted as one month, and those with less than 15 days will be counted as half a month. The excess is returned to the student. (The above regulations are limited to the period of epidemic prevention and control)
Strictly investigate and deal with the violation of rules and discipline charges.
　　
During the epidemic prevention and control period, schools in various places should collect accommodation fees in strict accordance with the principle of non-profit. Base, the school should charge accommodation fees based on the actual length of stay.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu