URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iirczymi9172056.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000021

Date : 2020-04-30 10:02:00
Title : The results of two clinical trials of ridcive have been announced
Ariticle : 
Original title: The results of two clinical trials of ridcive have been published. Why are the conclusions of China and the United States so different?
Beijing News (Reporter Zhang Xiulan) On April 30th, Beijing time, two other heavy news came out about the potential effective drug of the new coronavirus, redcive. The world&#39;s top medical journal Lancet published Wang Chen and Cao online The Bin team&#39;s randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trial of severe patients with new coronary pneumonia. The study showed that compared with the placebo group, receiving reduxil treatment did not accelerate the recovery rate of critically ill patients and failed to reduce deaths. But patients can get clinical improvement faster.
The top-line results of the open-label SIMPLE phase III clinical trial announced by Gilead Sciences showed that patients receiving 5-day course of reduxil and patients receiving 10-day course of reduxilvir had similar clinical improvements.
Wang Chen and Cao Bin&#39;s team research: failed to reduce death, patients get clinical improvement faster
The team of Wang Chen and Cao Bin conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multi-center trial for severe patients with new coronary pneumonia in 10 hospitals in Hubei. Between February 6 and March 12 this year, a total of 237 patients were enrolled The patients and enrolled patients were all newly diagnosed with new coronavirus infection by CT examination (age ≥18 years old), and met many conditions, including the interval from symptom onset to admission within 12 days, and the oxygen saturation was 94% Even lower.
Patients were randomly assigned to the redoxir injection group at a 2: 1 ratio (200 mg on the first day and 100 mg daily on days 2-10) and the placebo group at the same dose for 10 days. Among the 236 eligible enrollees, 158 patients received reduxil treatment and 78 patients received placebo treatment. Patients were allowed to use lopinavir-ritonavir, interferon, and corticosteroids at the same time, and collect stool or anal swab samples on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 21, 28, respectively To detect viral RNA and quantify. The researchers also developed a set of criteria to measure the clinical improvement of patients, including 6 different conditions from discharge (score 1) to death (score 6). According to the standard, if the patient&#39;s score can be reduced by 2 points or more after treatment, or discharged, it is regarded as clinical improvement.
According to the study, after the last follow-up on April 10, the researchers found that there was no significant difference in the clinical improvement time of the Radecivir group compared with the control group, and the median clinical improvement time of the Radecivir group was 21 Days, the median clinical improvement time of the control group was 23 days, and the mortality rate of the two groups on the 28th day was also very close. There were 22 deaths in the redoxive group, accounting for 14%, and 10 in the placebo group. Deaths accounted for 13% of patients.
According to ClinicalTrials.gov, a clinical trial registration website, including the above trials, the two clinical trials conducted by Redoxivir in China have been terminated due to the failure to recruit a sufficient number of patients.
At the same time, although it did not reach statistical significance, the study found that compared with standard treatment and placebo, patients receiving Radecivir had a clinical improvement time and an invasive mechanical ventilation time within 10 days after symptoms developed Short, based on this, the researchers also pointed out in the article that further study of ridxivir is needed to further understand its potential efficacy.
Gilead Science: The clinical improvement of 5 days and 10 days of medication is similar
On April 30, Beijing time, Gilead Sciences of the United States announced the top-line results of the open-label SIMPLE Phase III clinical trial. The study showed that patients receiving a 5-day course of redoxivir had similar clinical improvements to patients receiving a 10-day course of redoxivir.
This trial mainly evaluates the treatment effect of neocoronavirus pneumonia in severely hospitalized patients who received reduxil for 5 days and 10 days. The results of the study showed that the clinical improvement of patients receiving the 5-day course of redoxivir was similar to that of patients receiving the 10-day course of redoxivir (OR value: 0.75 [95% CI 0.51-1.12] at day 14). Studies have shown that 50% of patients have a clinical improvement time of 10 days in the 5-day treatment group and 11 days in the 10-day treatment group. More than half of the patients in the two treatment groups were discharged within 14 days. On day 14, 64.5% of the 5-day treatment group and 53.8% of the 10-day treatment group achieved clinical recovery.
Gilead Science plans to submit complete data in the next few weeks and publish it in peer-reviewed journals.
It is also reported that data released by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) showed that patients receiving the drug&#39;s 10-day treatment and 5-day treatment showed similar improvement in clinical status. The first 600 patients in the second simple trial The results are expected to be released at the end of May. Dr. Merdad Parsey, chief medical officer of Gilead Sciences, said the results of the aforementioned study are in addition to data from the NIAID placebo-controlled study on reduxil, which helps determine the best course of treatment for reduxil. The study shows that for some patients, a five-day treatment plan may be feasible, which will undoubtedly significantly expand the number of patients who are expected to receive treatment within the current supply of ridxivir.
Editor in charge: Zheng Yapeng