URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0812639.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100026

Date : 2020-05-01 08:24:00
Title : Yangzhi Rhine&#39;s Diary: How the German media reported the United States in the epidemic
Ariticle : 
Original title: Diary of Young Rhine: How the German media reported the United States in the epidemic
[Text / Observer Network columnist Yang Zhi]
The German &quot;Der Spiegel&quot; weekly magazine published an interview draft on April 18th. The interview target was Rolf Mützenich, chairman of the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) currently in power with the Union.
At the beginning of the interview, the reporter asked: &quot;Mr. Mitsinisi, can you live in Germany instead of the United States now? Do you feel particularly fortunate?&quot; Mitsinisi replied: &quot;That is. Practice has proved that Germany has taken a common commitment The road to unity and mutual assistance in the health care system is correct. In the United States, patients who must use ventilators must pay up to $ 25,000 a week. This is destroying the basis of survival and is extremely antisocial. &quot;
Reporter: &quot;President Trump first downplayed the crisis and now cancels funding to WHO.&quot; Mitsini Nisi replied: &quot;Trump is not only a threat to the health of the American people. He has done many wrong things, many Things were done too late, and he just wanted to show himself. The reason why he is now giving WHO a grain of food is entirely to divert his attention from his mistakes. &quot;
Of course, the German Zuoying has always had an anti-American tradition, but the unabashed straightforwardness of this important member of the Social Democratic Party also reflects the Germans ’view of the US President ’s ability to handle the crisis from another angle.
Speaking of Germany and the United States, aside from the history of hostility between the two world wars, the relationship between the two countries is actually very close and has deep roots.
Among American citizens, those with German background account for 17% of the total population. Therefore, Germans are currently the largest immigrant group in the United States. Before World War I, in Pennsylvania, where Germans were more concentrated, German was the official language alongside English.
Among the leaders in the United States, German influence is also quite prominent:
In the scientific community, there is the only female Nobel Prize winner Maria Goeppert-Mayer except Madame Curie, and the chief designer who designed the V2 rocket for Hitler and took it after the war Wernher Freiherr von Braun, one of the pioneers of the 20th century aerospace career emigrated to the United States by his team;
In sports, there are Babe Ruth (Jr.), Louis Gehrig and Honus Wagner who are recognized as the best baseball players in history;
Among the performing arts are Clark Gable, Paris Hilton, David Hasselhoff, Marlene Dietrich, Leona Leonardo DiCaprio, Bruce Willis, Sandra Bullock, etc.
Among the German presidents, three fathers are descendants of German immigrants: Dwight Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover and Donald Trump; and their mothers are descendants of German immigrants The president is Richard Nixon.
After World War II, the Western occupying power led by the United States imported a democratic system into the defeated country (part of West Germany) and quickly incorporated it into Western systems such as NATO. During the reunification of Germany and Germany, when Thatcher ’s Britain and Mitterrand ’s France expressed doubts and objections, it was George Bush who strongly supported Prime Minister Helmut Kohl ’s reunification plan. Therefore, even if relations between the two sides of the North Atlantic Ocean were ruined by the current President Trump, the Germans always felt the blessing and generosity of the United States.
But this does not mean that there is no anti-American complex among the German people. On the contrary, it exists in people of all ages. In the anti-war and student movements in the late 1960s, the anti-American flag was raised quite high. The young people who took to the streets at that time have now become the mainstay of all areas of German society, including the media.
In this issue of the &quot;Diary&quot;, the author will focus on how the German media reported on the United States in the epidemic.
　　
The German media upholds the &quot;critical&quot; principle, not only staring at their own governments, but also using magnifying glass to examine the role of the United States in the world. In the plague that swept the world, the United States (represented by Trump) often became the target of criticism from the German media.
From the following titles and introductions, you may feel the &quot;gunpowder smell&quot; among them:
　　
The catastrophic crisis management of the US President has left the US on the verge of an unprecedented economic collapse. Is the world experiencing implosion in a superpower?
　　
The US president played down the crisis and promised to provide vaccines to everyone, but his government department immediately withdrew. Trump looked at the stock market in surprise, and Bernie Sanders discovered a campaign topic.
　　　
In this probably the biggest crisis in the United States, Donald Trump is showing off himself so arrogantly, and he is so hesitant to deal with things. This kind of politician who is unable to support the wall is threatening more lives.
　　　
The New Crown Virus reflects a devastating and backward way of thinking: blame, exclusion, hatred. Trump is so trapped in the old model, the consequences will be more than the harm of disease.
　　　
Stopping the travel between the United States and Europe sounds fierce enough, in fact, this is inadvertently trying to transfer their incompetence.
　　　
Donald Trump did not understand the new crown global epidemic, but instead regarded the Europeans as scapegoats. To save lives, the US president should do the opposite.
Three review articles from the German media
The following three articles are quite representative, reflecting the views of the German media on President Trump in the epidemic. For the sake of completeness, the author translated them into Chinese for readers.
- 1 -
　　
Media: German &quot;Die Zeit&quot; / Date: April 27
Author: Colin Martin Frost (Martin Klingst) / column
Recently, some Trump opponents like to take out the supplementary section 25 of the US Constitution. According to this rule, if the president is unable to exercise his powers-such as mental disorders-he can be expelled from the Oval Office of the White House.
Indeed, Trump&#39;s self-control ability sometimes seems to be a problem, and some employees are quite worried about his mental state. At a recent press conference, he strongly recommended emitting &quot;strong light&quot; to patients with new crowns because scientists are said to find that ultraviolet light can kill coronavirus. Since disinfectants and chlorine bleach can also kill viruses, the president also suggested taking or injecting them. Doctors, health authorities and people with normal thoughts were upset.
The discussion about the introduction of the additional section 25 article was not unique, and it appeared several months after Trump took office. At that time, his unreliable way of ruling had appeared. It is said that even the Deputy Minister of Justice Rod J. Rosenstein had considered the possibility of impeachment. Although this rumor was denied, it has not stopped. Trump ’s former adviser and right-wing member Steve Bannon, who still has close ties with the president, is said to have said that Trump ’s greatest risk is not impeachment proceedings, but Article 25.
Hollywood used this constitutional rule as the theme and produced many wonderful film and television works. For example, in the Madame Secretary drama, Article 25 was considered to dethrone the fictitious President Conrad Dalton, because of a hidden brain tumor that made him elusive and ordered a military attack. In the sixth season of the well-known American drama &quot;Homeland&quot; (Homeland), the vice president and the cabinet drove out the particularly incompetent Elizabeth Keane from the White House.
　　
However, in reality, Article 25 is not used to deal with situations such as President Donald Trump&#39;s incompetence, misleading, and instability. This law stipulates that the president can only be replaced by the vice president if the physical or mental condition is determined by medicine to have no function, such as loss of consciousness or clinical confusion, and this measure is generally only temporary Sexual.
Even at this step, there are still significant obstacles to be overcome, for example, the Vice President and most ministers must assure the Congress in writing that the President has been unable to perform his duties. Of course, if the president himself disagreed with this, Article 25 would be unsustainable. If you have every reason to remove Donald Trump from the presidency, it can only be achieved by voting.
The United States of America did not use the New Crown Virus to become a great testing ground for democracy and democratic consciousness, but the terrible consequences of the Great Plague have reinforced this again. The question is, will most voters learn from the continued madness of the White House? Will they vote on November 3 to oust this democratically elected but often undemocratic president? Can the state and its functional institutions regain the trust of citizens?
　　
The foundation of democracy is trust, which includes trust in the efficiency and leadership of the country and the effectiveness and legal compliance of the state machine. This already cracked trust was further damaged in the New Crown crisis. The government ’s response this time was too late and extremely inadequate, thus endangering the lives of thousands of people.
The health system is saved, not only is it poorly equipped, but-like the health insurance system-is extremely unfair. The poor, blacks, and Hispanics receive much less medical care than the rich. In addition, whoever is unemployed-in this great plague, millions of people suffer this bad luck-, who will quickly lose medical insurance. For many people, getting sick is a huge risk of falling into poverty. Over the years, the Social Labor Bureau ’s funds and personnel have been cut, and the lack of manpower will naturally not be able to meet the emergency rescue needs. The lack of funds in default has made the medical system at risk.
This is certainly not the fault of Donald Trump alone. Red Pencil ’s throttling policy has lasted for decades, starting from the day when Republican President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s declared that the country was an enemy of individuals and freedom. Democratic presidents such as Bill Clinton also took advantage of state welfare.
　　
The United States has a tradition of opposing and criticizing the country. Like many political movements, these people&#39;s demands are as radical as ever. During Barack Obama&#39;s administration, the far-right anti-national Tea Party movement not only gained power within the Republican Party, but also completely controlled it. This &quot;die grand old party&quot; (die grand old party) is now like the tea party, and it has begun to vigorously anti-tax, anti-state and anti-welfare.
After Trump was elected, even though he borrowed trillions of dollars unchecked, the Tea Party initially remained silent unexpectedly. Politically, the right wing does not seem to object to Trump&#39;s use of borrowed money for the following: building a wall and cutting taxes, the latter bringing great benefits to businesses and the rich.
Today, these right-wing Americans, once encouraged by Trump, have once again ascended to protest against the country. Holding the Union flag and rifle in hand, they asked side by side to end the closure immediately, let restaurants and bars reopen, and opposed the obligation to wear masks. They don&#39;t seem to care whether their actions endanger the health and lives of others.
　　
Particularly brazen, they also compared themselves to Rosa Parks, a black civil rights activist who opposed the racial discrimination laws of 1955. The demonstrators deliberately ignored the fact that the social distance and suspension of business regulations had nothing to do with discrimination. These temporary measures restricting individual freedoms were designed to protect the health of all citizens, especially members of vulnerable groups. The protesters didn&#39;t seem to know that the victims of the Great Plague and poor medical security were mainly African Americans, descendants of Rosa Parks.
There is no doubt that welfare measures should also be reviewed. The state itself is not an end, but a servant of collective well-being. A cumbersome, bureaucratic, and inefficient country does not benefit collective well-being. In the same way, during the epidemic, we should repeatedly ask whether the measures restricting freedom can still have the expected effect. Naturally, those unreachable and disproportionate goals should be eliminated.
　　
However, demonstrators wielding weapons in front of the US Congress are not thinking about these, they are targeting the country itself. For them, the country is a burden, so it should be cut off as much as possible.
But worldwide, the situation is just the opposite: people get the best protection precisely in places where the country has not yet been heavily felled, is functioning well and is still able to effectively complete its tasks; where people ’s health, life and freedom are always best protection.
Most Americans see it this way. According to a survey conducted by the well-known polling agency (Pew) in mid-April, two-thirds of the respondents worry that the restrictions on movement may be lifted too soon. Another poll conducted by Quinnipiac University in early April showed that 81% of the respondents preferred to implement uniform restrictions across the country and did not want each state to do its own thing.
There is no doubt that Donald Trump will still not lead, but will continue to be misleading. Fortunately, his support is declining.
　　
　　
Media: &quot;Deutsche Welle&quot; / Date: March 30
Author: Alexandra von Carolina doors (Alexandra von Nahmen)
He now holds an epidemic news conference almost every day to show confidence and decision-making power. But for those who are looking for directions and are interested in the facts, his press conference has become quite unbearable. The President of the United States often disseminates half-truths and half-truths on the stage, or lies utterly. Once questioned, he starts attacking the media. The signals he sent contradicted each other, and his crisis management may have killed many Americans.
When his own intelligence agency warned of the new crown virus in January, Donald Trump downplayed the danger of the virus; when the virus was out of control due to lack of testing, he claimed that everything was under control. Today, he claims to be a &quot;wartime president&quot; against invisible enemies. But it wasn&#39;t Trump who bravely and firmly invigorated his country during the crisis, but Andrew Cuomo, a New York governor and Democrat known as the epicenter of the epidemic in the US
　　
While the number of patients in New York and other parts of the United States is rapidly increasing, and more and more American hospitals are reaching the limit, President Trump hopes to restore the economy as soon as possible. While doctors in New York City were having to make life-and-death choices for patients due to a shortage of ventilators, Donald Trump was still fooling around the church full of Easter.
Last Saturday he announced that the White House is considering imposing foot restraints on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey. A few hours later, he had changed his mind. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advises residents in the affected areas to avoid unnecessary travel.
　　
Governor Cuomo of New York State reported that he received a phone call from a panicky New Yorker who was thinking of leaving New York quickly. At this point, people want to scream out: &quot;America, who do you choose for the White House!&quot;
However, Trump&#39;s popularity has increased. In times of crisis, countries that are shaken and frightened tend to gather around the president. He promised that the United States is the United States, and it will surely step out of this crisis more powerfully than before. There is nothing that this great country cannot do. At this tragic time when confidence is needed, Trump could have assumed the role of the President given by the United States. Unfortunately, such moments often lasted only a few minutes, and Trump repeatedly touted himself repeatedly, praising his high ratings for news releases, complaining that the media and governors did not give him enough respect, and so on.
　　
For his followers, it doesn&#39;t matter. They believe in &quot;their&quot; president. At least many Americans will soon receive a $ 1,200 check from the government as a direct aid to the crisis, and this crisis has indeed plunged the US economy. Rumor has it that Trump wanted to see his signature on the check. I am afraid there is no better election gift than this.
The money was part of the most extensive bailout plan in US history passed by Congress across parties last week. The multibillion-dollar subsidies and loans benefited not only ordinary employees, but also small businesses, hospitals, and industries hit hard by the epidemic, such as aviation.
　　
In order to pass this bill aimed at getting the US economy out of trouble, both Democrats and Republicans have made concessions. For the US president, who has always defined his achievements through economic growth and stock market records, this is a top priority. Trump&#39;s calculation is: If the economy can grow again before the fall elections and the unemployment rate falls again, then his voters will continue to be loyal to him.
Under the current situation, Joe Biden, his potential challenger and former vice president of the Democratic Party, is hard to attract public attention. Compared with the current president, although he showed more empathy and expertise in the crisis, under the current special circumstances, this may not be of much help to him.
Because at such moments, everyone will look at the person sitting in the White House. If Trump can lead the United States to defeat the epidemic, then the probability of re-election in November will greatly increase.
　　
　　
Newspaper: German &quot;Die Zeit&quot; (Die Zeit)
Date: April 15
Author: Manuel Stark (Manuel Stark)
Now, the United States has reached the top of the sad number: the new crown has killed more than 25,000 people, ranking first in the world. Normally, the number of daily deaths in New York City is 150. During the outbreak, this number increased several times. In order to bury the body in time, people had to dig mass graves on Hart Island. At the same time, US President Donald Trump announced his intention to cut funds to the World Health Organization (WHO).
American cardiologist and geneticist Eric Jeffrey Topol is very angry. He wrote that the US government has repeatedly made mistakes in responding to the new crown crisis, and the current situation is the country&#39;s &quot;betrayal&quot; of medical personnel. Doctors, nurses and nurses have poor protective materials, or simply cut off the goods, causing many of them to get sick and die. On April 7, the White House said at a news conference that the exact number of infections among nursing staff has not yet been collected, but it will be followed up. Topol believes that one of the reasons for the disaster is that the US test started too late, which caused the situation to be out of control.
Topol is not just an ordinary loud voice, he is also a professor in many disciplines and one of the most famous medical scientists in the world. As the first director of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, California, he is dedicated to the research of new digital technologies in the medical field. The following is an excerpt of the report published by ZEIT ONLINE on the Internet platform &quot;Medscape&quot; created by Topol on March 30 and its background supplement to the current development of the epidemic.
Unlike South Korea, which will soon be tested with the new crown test agent provided by the World Health Organization (WHO), the United States decided to develop its own test agent, but the results were not satisfactory. Because there is no effective test agent, the United States spent nearly 50 days more than South Korea to increase the test volume. During this period, countless patients with pneumonia and respiratory diseases were sent to the emergency department. Unable to diagnose the new coronavirus, the patient spread the virus without knowing it, including among medical staff.
Comparing the number of tests in the United States and South Korea in February, you can confirm the description of Topol. Testing in South Korea began on February 4, and soon after the number of people tested each day reached 3,000. This number was not reached in the United States until the second week of March. In addition, South Korea has implemented other WHO recommendations, such as tracking the infection chain and immediately isolating all patients. Maintaining social distance was later implemented in Germany. According to data from the Robert Koch Institute, this measure alone has greatly slowed the spread of the virus.
The United States did nothing. On the contrary, the authorities continue to make wrong decisions. These decisions not only endanger public health, but also include those who are responsible for caring for others.
Although the new crown of the United States originated in Seattle, the lack of epidemic prevention in the United States, including the severe shortage of protective equipment, intensive care beds and respirators, was only exposed in the New York epidemic that broke out in early March.
　　
On March 1, WHO recorded 62 new crown cases in the United States, when no one died. A week later, 11 people died and the number of infections increased to 201. From this point on, the numbers soared rapidly. Many Americans began to buy and hoard masks, soaps and disinfectants. Many government members, including the Minister of Health, appealed to the people to unite and help each other, and warned everyone that medical staff needed protective materials even more, and masks were not very useful for ordinary people. As the New York Times and other American media have speculated, this message sent by government officials not only did not reassure the people, but also made them more uneasy. Domestic stores are just like being ransacked, as long as what is considered to be resistant to viruses is a target for buying, even weapons.
Fear does not seem to be completely unfounded. Unlike Germany, the United States does not have extensive health insurance, more than 50 million Americans do not have medical insurance, and each treatment costs money. In the past three weeks, the New Crown Outbreak alone has caused nearly 16 million people to lose their jobs.
Many workers in the health system either do not have masks at all, or a mask can be used for several shifts, or even days. I&#39;m talking about the ordinary 75-cent mask, not the N95 model that is more suitable for protection against droplet infections.
Not only do doctors, nurses, and caregivers have to allocate scarce supplies, but in some intensive care units, several patients must also share the same ventilator. In specific figures: we need hundreds of thousands to 1 million ventilators, but there are actually less than 160,000 in the country.
According to statistics from the World Health Organization, on March 31, the number of deaths due to the new corona virus in the United States has reached 2398, and the number of infections is 140640. After hesitating for a long time, the US government launched the National Defense Production Law. The law was originally designed to support US military capabilities during the Korean War. After the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, the law was extended to the field of health. According to the law, Donald Trump forced companies such as General Motors to produce ventilators, and Apple began producing plastic protective masks. It is unclear as to when these materials will become in short supply. At the beginning of the epidemic, many clinics tried to cover up employees&#39; doubts and dissatisfaction, ignoring or even suppressing warnings and calls for improving equipment:
Doctors and other medical staff are often prohibited from talking about their concerns. When it comes to the current situation, the boss will ask them to listen to or expel those who insist on speaking.
According to statistics from the Robert Koch Institute, the average age of Germans dying of the new coronavirus is 82 years old. In the United States, the mortality rate over the age of 80 is also greatly increased. After reading these data, people will easily think that young people are fine, only the elderly will be affected. Indeed, fatal results are relatively rare among people under 35. According to a report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), so far, only three deceased in the United States are under the age of 18, and all have other diseases. Nonetheless, the new coronavirus is elusive, and it affects everyone differently, and young people are not absolutely insured, especially those working in health care.
　　
As for why this is so, there are multiple theories. One of them believes that the virus&#39;s effects on the immune system are similar to poisons. The higher the dose, the higher the risk of severe illness.
In Wuhan, Li Wenliang, the earliest ophthalmologist who alerted the coronavirus, was 33 years old when he died on February 7. He is not the youngest medical professional who died during the epidemic in China. Dr. Xia Sisi, who died 35 days after fighting the virus, was only 29 years old. President Trump completely ignored this. On March 11, he announced in the Oval Office that young and healthy people are expected to recover quickly and completely after infection.
It is said that the new coronavirus will not kill young people, but there are indeed young nurses, nurses and doctors in the United States who have lost their lives.
The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) reported that about one-fifth of the new crown patients in Ohio and Minnesota are medical professionals. Laura Ucik, a doctor at the Montefiore Medical Center who protested with other medical staff in front of the New York Clinic, said: &quot;I feel like a slaughterer every day when I go to work Lamb. My colleagues and I have written wills. &quot;One of the protesters showed a nurse how they stored the few masks: it was a brown kraft paper bag that looked a bit like a bag for bread. &quot;Five or seven shifts, we use the same mask.&quot;
The death of these doctors and medical experts from the virus is more than a tragedy, because most of them die too badly. Their death was the result of too long a delay in detection and a lack of protective materials.
Now, in order to cope with the shortage of medical staff, some American universities have to let medical students graduate early. However, regardless of the number or experience, these young medical workers may have difficulty filling the gap left by the new coronavirus to doctors, nurses and treatment teams. Moreover, whether they are willing to fill in the blanks is still a question mark, because fighting these days on the &quot;front line&quot; of the US epidemic resistance may mean losing lives.
The current aid comes from China. The People&#39;s Republic of China has provided 1.5 million N95 protective masks, gloves and other medical supplies. President Trump announced that he has signed more aid contracts. Despite the use of military beds and doctors, the most important resources for anti-epidemic protective clothing, respirators, beds, and manpower are still lacking. Eric Jeffrey Topol insisted that the US government created this desperate situation. He said that the government will be recorded in history with this blame.
Compared with the death and destruction caused by the new coronavirus, the 9/11 terrorist attacks and many other disasters are nothing short of big. Perhaps the most unforgettable thing for our medical profession is that we were deceived by it when we needed our own country most.
(End of translation)
Based on the content of the above three articles, we may draw the following conclusions:
First, the German media is quite clear about the problems and reasons that have occurred in the prevention and control of the US epidemic, and what he has done to Trump himself (showing off his self, blaming and dumping others, &quot;nonsense&quot;, wrong decisions, changing the rules, etc.) Know the truth.
Second, the different reasons for the practice of Germany and the United States in the fight against epidemics are complicated. Here are the factors of the ruling style of the leaders, the reasons for the size of the country, and of course the roots of the system. Both Germany and the United States belong to a &quot;federal system&quot;, but the former is a cabinet responsibility system, and the latter is a presidential system. Objectively speaking, the German political system is stronger than the United States in preventing and intercepting errors. Although the power of the American president is constrained by the parliament, it is still very large. Therefore, when a president like Trump is involved, the world It was turned upside down.
Third, the self-reflection ability of the German media is not strong, which is related to the function of this &quot;fourth power&quot; itself. Long-term habit of pointing your hand at others, it is easy to ignore the narrowness of your own perspective. There is also a problem. Although the voices of the Western media are diverse, under the appearance of &quot;full bloom&quot;, the influence of mainstream consciousness is quite large. From a business point of view, there is a competitive relationship between the various media; from an ideological point of view, they affect each other. According to the author&#39;s observations, most of the views are &quot;plagiarism&quot; and analysis of mediocrity, but not many are really knowledgeable and good at self-reflection (including the system).
Then go back to the epidemic situation in Germany and the United States.
According to the latest news provided by Johns Hopkins University, the death toll of the new coronavirus in the United States has exceeded the number of Americans killed in the Vietnam War. The situation in Germany has remained basically stable, and people are more concerned about lifting the ban.
According to reports, Merkel&#39;s robust style is sought after in the United States. This also reflects from another angle that Americans are not satisfied with their president&#39;s wavering approach to crisis management.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu