URL : https://tuoitre.vn/hoc-sinh-tro-lai-truong-co-can-thiet-deo-non-tam-chan-2020050418074184.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400013

Date : 2020-05-04 18:54:00
Title : Students returning to school, is it necessary to wear a hat?
Ariticle : 

TTO - On 4-5 days, students in grades 9 and 12 return to school during the COVID-19 epidemic situation. Some schools allow students to wear masks and hats to keep them safe during school time. This image makes many people stir and protest.




Ho Chi Minh City grants 9 students a mask when going back to school



Whether or not wearing a mask: &#39;Parents are not experts&#39;!




Students of Tran Quang Khai High School (District 11, Ho Chi Minh City) wear masks and shields on school days in the morning of 4-5. Photo: AS HUNG
As noted, in order to go to school safely, most schools equipped with more hand-washing faucets, strict passageways, medical masks. Some schools even plan for students to wear safety glasses.
The leader of a high school in Binh Thanh District (Ho Chi Minh City) informed that nearly 800 students gathered today for the school to prevent and fight against epidemics, class, and seating according to the prescribed distance and speech. Page, prepare for tomorrow&#39;s class.
&quot;For peace of mind, the school intends to let students make hats, or will notify them to equip themselves while sitting to learn safety,&quot; he added.
Or like Tran Quang Khai High School (District 11), students are prepared with masks and hats covered by the school, they wear it simultaneously during class.
The story of wearing a mask and wearing a protective hat at the same time makes this image worry that parents will affect their health.
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Tam (District 11) said: &quot;My child is in 9th grade, seeing that he has to wear a mask and a shield during school hours, I ask him how he feels, he replies: stifling, shortness of breath, looking at the board feels very entangled. I wonder if my child can sustain it.
Talking to Tuoi Tre Online, Dr. Truong Huu Khanh, head of the Department of Internal Medicine and Neurology at Children&#39;s Hospital 1 (Ho Chi Minh City), said that wearing a shield is not necessary, should not be.
&quot;This hat is only for those who directly care for the patient, facing the sick person, when they cough, there is a glass to prevent sudden drops. While students sit in the same direction, no effect.
This helmet is only suitable for students when playing, they have fun when coughing, the opposite person can not keep up. It is not advisable to use it smoothly and continuously during class time, the weather is hot, and the shield has a close distance from the face, causing visibility to be affected, unclear vision, eye strain, potentially affecting eyesight. force.
That is not including the dust shield, the children playing against broken glass, which will lead to many other unintended stories, &quot;Dr. Khanh emphasized.



DANG THAO THUONG
