URL : https://tuoitre.vn/canh-bao-lien-tiep-nguoi-lon-tuoi-an-uong-bi-hit-sac-nguy-hiem-tinh-mang-20200505113951564.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500014

Date : 2020-05-05 15:25:00
Title : Continuing warning for the elderly to eat and drink choke, life-threatening
Ariticle : 

TTO - Ho Chi Minh City Unified Hospital has just rescued an elderly patient who was choking while eating. This is a lucky case to be saved among 4 emergency cases in the last 1 month.




Ho Chi Minh City deployed home health care for the elderly



Two patients with COVID-19 developed severe, the Ministry of Health recommends the elderly



Parkinson&#39;s disease, the elderly should know




Taking care of elderly patients who choke at Ho Chi Minh City Hospital - Photo: Hospital provided
Accordingly, LVQ patient (82 years old, Tan Binh District, Ho Chi Minh City) was hospitalized in the state of respiratory failure, pale face due to silk rolls while eating.
After an emergency, pick up 2 pieces of spring rolls in the airway,
The patient&#39;s health has stabilized.
Doctor CKII Hoang Ngoc Anh - Deputy Head of Department of Poison Control and Poisoning at Thong Nhat Hospital (Ho Chi Minh City), said that inhalation is an emergency situation because an object has fallen into the respiratory tract causing obstruction. At any age, especially more dangerous for the elderly, can be life-threatening.
In April, the hospital admitted 4 patients aged 82-88 who were choking, only one lucky case was saved.
However, the symptoms of choking are often overlooked and treated sparsely because few people think about them. The common symptoms are
cough, wheezing, difficulty breathing, severe cases, cyanosis.
To limit and prevent the risk of choking inhalation, need to identify swallowing disorders for the elderly such as drinking water falling out, saliva flowing, many phlegm, difficulty chewing bites, coughing or swallowing, while chewing, changing voice or speaking speed after eating ...
Dr. Anh recommends that when caring for patients, relatives must give soft food, avoid sticky, grated food. Feeding when the patient is awake, sitting, feeding slowly, helps support the opening of the patient&#39;s mouth, reminds to suck on food for a long time, when eating or sitting or half sitting, then stands up, oral hygiene.

Two patients with COVID-19 developed severe, the Ministry of Health recommends the elderly

TTO - Elderly people, people with underlying medical conditions and high-risk subjects to minimize going out, going to public areas and interacting with others.



THU THU HIEN
