URL : https://tuoitre.vn/bo-y-te-chua-cap-nhat-duoc-gia-trung-thau-20200504080459026.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400005

Date : 2020-05-04 09:51:00
Title : The Ministry of Health has not updated the winning bid price
Ariticle : 

TTO - The audit results show that investments in and procurement of medical equipment, supplies, chemicals, and medical equipment used in medical examination and treatment in localities are mostly based on suppliers&#39; price quotes. not based on the winning results of the previous year.




The Prime Minister directed the inspection of bidding packages for the purchase of medical supplies to prevent and combat COVID-19 epidemic



Notice of tender invitation, but not received



COVID-19 testing machine price fluctuations: Many bidding packages have been &quot;unexpectedly&quot; favored




Hanoi Center for Disease Control (CDC) - Photo: NAM TRAN
The audit results of investment, procurement, management and use of medical equipment are announced by the State Audit in 2019 (summarizing the audit results from 276 audit reports at 204 audited units in 2016 of the State Audit) shows that some risks in procurement in health sector have been pointed out.
“The Ministry of Health has not been able to update the winning price of materials and chemicals nationwide to serve as a database for construction and approval of planned prices and contractor selection.
Audit results are announced by the State Audit in 2019
Most hospitals have different plan price approvals for a given material, chemical and same supplier, between highly approved prices.
The lowest and lowest have huge differences.
Meanwhile, the audit agency also recorded many types of materials and chemicals at the audited units whose winning bid prices decreased compared to the approved plan prices.
Specifically, Hospital K has 7 kinds of chemicals down from 34.9 to 449.5%, Central Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion has 4 types of chemicals down from 33-191%, Thong Nhat Hospital has 5 types of chemicals. down from
40.3-238.3%.
Auditing results in 11 provinces and cities also recorded a total of 1,225 equipment with limited use, with bidding and procurement costs of over VND 370 billion, of which the number of broken equipment was not fixed. 649 repaired equipment, 120 un repaired equipment damaged, 456 unused or less used equipment.
Many devices that have been newly invested but have not yet been used or have just been put into use are broken.
Lawyer Truong Thanh Duc:

Need to clarify the possibility of profiteering
After all, electronic bidding or centralized bidding is still the deciding factor. Contractors are always for profit and always want to raise the highest price. And state agencies must always be supervisors.
Purchase of COVID-19 testing machines with taxpayers&#39; money, the state management agency must supervise. Actual purchase price depends on the efficiency of the machine.
So to have accurate prices, the state agencies must be alert. As for the phenomenon of increasing the price of testing machines simultaneously, in my opinion, with the current bidding law framework, it is still necessary to expect the morality of the representatives of state agencies who buy equipment.
Need to clarify whether or not signs of profiteering by local officials in this case.



COVID-19 testing machine price fluctuations: Many bidding packages have been &quot;unexpectedly&quot; favored

TTO - After the Police Department investigated the crime of corruption, economy, smuggling (C03) prosecuted the case of buying a COVID-19 testing machine at CDC Hanoi that revealed other abnormalities, as many localities Despite the purchase, but still &quot;negotiate&quot; to reduce prices.




DUC TUAN
