URL : https://tuoitre.vn/viet-nam-nghien-cuu-dung-huyet-tuong-benh-nhan-da-khoi-de-chua-covid-19-2020042921400144.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000001

Date : 2020-04-29 22:04:00
Title : Vietnam studies using cured patient plasma to treat COVID-19
Ariticle : 

TTO - Mr. Bach Quoc Khanh, Director of the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion, said the institute is collaborating with the National Hospital of Tropical Diseases to study the plasma of COVID-19 patients who have recovered to treat patients. heavy.




Europe and the United States use plasma to treat patients with severe COVID-19



WHO: China approach &#39;very reasonable&#39; when using plasma therapy



Tom Hanks and his wife donated plasma to create anti-corona vaccine




Medical staff visit a COVID-19 patient treated at the National Hospital of Tropical Diseases - Photo: VIET DUNG
Accordingly, the institute will initially mobilize COVID-19 patients who have donated 10-20 plasma units for storage and research.
Because there were 11 cases of COVID-19 re-positive after being negative many times and being discharged from the hospital, this time the doctor would choose to receive plasma samples from the donor who has recovered from the disease over 28 days, and will be retest before conducting research.
These plasma samples will be used by the Central Tropical Diseases Hospital to treat patients with severe COVID-19.
Mr. Khanh said that in China, 15 patients were selected to transfuse plasma containing antibodies of the cured person for treatment and the effect achieved in 60-70% of the infused patients.
However, according to Mr. Khanh, only patients with high viral load, patients without antibodies neutralize the virus, the treatment with plasma transfusion will be effective. In cases where COVID-19 has pneumonia or other illnesses, plasma transfusions do not cure these conditions.
In addition to the study of plasma therapy, there is another study on the use of chloroquine to treat COVID-19 by the Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Ho Chi Minh City and the clinical research unit of Oxford University (UK). ) coordinated implementation.
According to Mr. Nguyen Ngo Quang - Deputy Director of Department of Science, Technology and Training, Ministry of Health, this research is in the stage of considering the effectiveness of drug treatment.
After this period, the Ministry of Health will evaluate and decide whether to allow further research on the possibility of COVID-19 prevention in high-risk groups, such as health workers, people living in outbreaks ... or not.



Europe and the United States use plasma to treat patients with severe COVID-19

TTO - A number of countries in the world (including Vietnam) have used the plasma of COVID-19 patients who have ceased to treat COVID-19 patients with serious complications. How is this treatment performed?




LAN ANH
