URL : https://tuoitre.vn/washington-post-my-co-the-hoc-hoi-viet-nam-kinh-nghiem-chong-covid-19-20200502080820143.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200006

Date : 2020-05-02 09:04:00
Title : Washington Post: The US can learn from Vietnam the experience against COVID-19
Ariticle : 

TTO - Vietnam is not a country with developed technology like South Korea or Taiwan, nor a small space, easy to control like Hong Kong or Iceland, but they have successfully controlled the translation and the US can learn. experience, according to the Washington Post.




How did countries apply the blockade and ban on entry to prevent COVID-19?



What are countries doing to prevent COVID-19 from spreading?



Vietnam suspends visa exemption for 8 European countries to prevent COVID-19




People wearing masks, standing in line at a distance according to regulations waiting for free rice delivery in Hanoi during the COVID-19 epidemic - Photo: AFP
The effective fight against the COVID-19 epidemic in Vietnam in recent days continues to receive special attention from the international media. The consensus viewpoint in the articles is that it is the speed, the decisiveness, and the swiftness in early implementation of preventive measures that have helped Vietnam to successfully prevent the epidemic.
DPA news agency (Germany) quoted the opinion of Mr. Kidong Park, representative of the World Health Organization in Vietnam, said: &quot;Vietnam has responded to the disease early and proactively. From the beginning of January. , they have been active in assessing disease risk, right after the first cases were announced in China. &quot;
From another perspective, Radio DW (Germany) said that Vietnam has implemented anti-epidemic measures such as establishing strict preventive isolation policies and tracing contact with people at risk of exposure. much earlier than some countries after the first cases were discovered.
The Nation newspaper (USA) published an article titled &quot;Vietnam may have the most effective way to respond to COVID-19&quot; through the simultaneous mobilization of the health system, officials and public security forces. security and creative community media campaigns.
Like The Nation, the Washington Post said that the United States can learn from Vietnam about the experience of anti-epidemic because Vietnam is not a country with developed technology like Korea or Taiwan, nor a small, easy space. control like Hong Kong or Iceland, but over the past 2 weeks Vietnam has no new cases and no deaths.
The paper cited an analysis by two experts, Robyn Klingler-Vidra from King&#39;s College London and Ba Linh Linh Tran of Bath University, said that there are three strategies that have helped Vietnam successfully control outbreaks: body temperature testing and testing. , key blockade and ongoing communication.



Compartment COVID-19, cannot have weak links

TTO - Excessive worry only makes himself miserable, creates unnecessary confusion in the community, adds difficulties for the prevention of epidemics. Lacking trust, overreacting will create weak links in COVID-19 prevention.




D.KIM THO synthetic
