URL : https://tuoitre.vn/nha-trang-ngan-bac-si-anthony-fauci-dieu-tran-truoc-quoc-hoi-ve-phan-ung-dich-benh-20200502110621143.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200011

Date : 2020-05-02 11:57:00
Title : The White House prevented Dr. Anthony Fauci from testifying before Congress about the disease response
Ariticle : 

TTO - White House morning 2-5 (Vietnam time) announced that Dr. Anthony Fauci will not participate in the hearing next week before a congressional committee investigating the COVID-19 epidemic of the Trump administration.




Changing tactics, Biden overtook Mr. Trump in terms of support



Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump intervened in the war between Russia and Saudi Arabia



63,000 Americans die of corona, Trump&#39;s approval rating is still increasing, why?




President Donald Trump listened to Dr. Athony speak at a White House press conference about the reaction to the COVID-19 epidemic. Photo: REUTERS
Reuters reported that the White House said that Dr. Dr. Fa Fai - the leading US medical expert and member of the President&#39;s task force against the COVID-19 epidemic of President Donald Trump - will not participate. hearings, alleging that engaging individuals will &quot;backfire&quot;.
The White House issued the notice via email, after a speaker of a House committee said they were told that officials in the Trump administration had prevented Mr. Fauci from participating in a hearing held by the committee.
Specifically, White House spokesman Judd Deere said that while the Trump administration continues to conduct a government-wide response to the COVID-19 epidemic, leaving individuals involved in the efforts The anti-epidemic force COVID-19 that appeared at congressional hearings was counterproductive.
&quot;We are committed to working with parliament to propose a hearing at an appropriate time,&quot; said Judd Deere.
According to the original plan, a subcommittee of the US House of Representatives Committee, which oversees congressional health programs, wants Mr. Fauci to participate in the hearing on May 6.
Newspaper
Washington Post
was the first to report that Fauci would not attend this hearing.
Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is one of the leading medical experts involved in leading the US government&#39;s COVID-19 disease response campaign.
In February this year, according to the New York Times, Dr. Fauci said he was asked not to speak without permission from the US government for the COVID-19 anti-epidemic information.
Over time, the US President has been in constant conflict with the House of Representatives (controlled by the Democratic Party) over moves that the legislature wants to investigate the activities of the president and his administration.
Recently, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called for extensive investigations on Trump&#39;s treatment of the COVID-19 epidemic. The plague killed nearly 65,000 Americans.



Doctor Anthony Fauci, American hero

TTO - In recent days, during the daily press conference about the COVID-19 epidemic situation in the White House, besides US President Donald Trump, there was always Mr. Anthony Fauci, an Italian-American doctor.




D. KIM THA HAB
