URL : https://tuoitre.vn/bac-si-singapore-chung-toi-hoc-cach-cuoi-bang-doi-mat-20200502101356195.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200012

Date : 2020-05-02 11:20:00
Title : Singapore Doctor: &#39;We learn to smile with our eyes&#39;
Ariticle : 

TTO - Doctors volunteering to care for migrant workers at Singaporean hostels say they must learn how to make eye contact with patients when they need to wear protective gear.




Castrol free oil change for medical services, isolated doctors



There are already preferential credit packages for teachers and doctors



Young doctor died of COVID-19 before the wedding




Doctor Maleena Suppiah (right) stands next to a patient at the medical station in the Tuas View dormitory - Photo: NUHS
Cloaks, gloves, goggles, masks, shields ... are necessary for doctors in the fight against new and invisible strains of corona virus.
These protectors create a protective shield during the medical treatment, but also create stifling, heat for the physician ... causing sweat to flow like a shower.
And for the volunteer doctors working alongside COVID-19 patients who are migrant workers in Singapore, communicating with patients through such barriers is one of the major challenges, besides barriers. about the language. And they are learning how to communicate with patients through ... eyes.
&quot;We learn to smile with our eyes. With the gag, there is no way for them to see our mouth or teeth. When caring for them, we want to convey a lot of empathy to them. patients &quot;- Dai
Channel News Asia
May 2, 2016, sharing the sharing of female doctor Maleena Suppiah from the Jurong Medical Center of the National University Health System (NUHS) in Singapore.
&quot;We have gradually learned to communicate with eyes and images,&quot; said Dr. Maleena Suppiah.
Doctor Maleena Suppiah (right) and another volunteer at the Tuas View dormitory in Singapore - Photo: NUHS
Maleena, 55, spends three days a week volunteering at migrant workers&#39; dormitories in Singapore, where the number of COVID-19 cases has been increasing recently.
As of May 1, the number of COVID-19 related to these workers reached 14,776, accounting for the majority of the 17,101 cases in Singapore. There are 25 dormitories for foreign workers that have been classified as isolated areas.
Dr. Maleena has done the work of spreading nose and throat fluids at many such dormitories, including
Tuas View, Westlite Toh Guan and Toh Guan. She is part of a team that organizes nasal and throat swabs at the dorm
Tuas View from April 16 and also participated in training for newly arrived volunteers.
COVID-19 testing in dormitories for foreign workers has been strengthened since the first few cases were detected in late March. Singapore authorities say about 25,000 migrant workers have been have been tested COVID-19 to date.
Besides testing services, doctors
medical care is required for migrant workers who cannot leave the dorm. They must maintain energy and care for as many patients as possible.
Djoni Huang, a doctor who also works at the dorms, said: &quot;The migrant workers play an important role in helping build Singapore to the position it is today.&quot;



Singapore set up a field hospital with more than 4,000 beds, using many robots

TTO - A field hospital built from the famous Changi Exhibition Center. The indoor area provides beds for 2,700 people, while the outdoor area is being expanded with 1,700 beds.




PEACE
