URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/01/c_139023337.htm
ID : XINH2020050100076

Date : 2020-05-01 13:51:17
Title : Malaysia eases restrictions to reopen most economic activities following COVID-19 cases drop
Ariticle : 
A soldier stands guard next to a community under the enhanced movement control order in Selayang Baru, Selangor, Malaysia, on April 26, 2020. (Photo by Chong Voon Chung/Xinhua)
 Malaysia will ease restrictions to reopen most economic and social activities in the light of the recent decline of the COVID-19 cases, to strike a balance between economic recovery and controlling the outbreak.
KUALA LUMPUR, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Malaysia will ease restrictions to allow most economic and social activities to restart following the recent decline of the COVID-19 cases in the country, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Friday.
In a televised speech, Muhyiddin said the decision had been made in light of the success in controlling the outbreak of the COVID-19 in the country. The country's economy has taken a hit from the measures which have also hurt ordinary citizens.
The government has started implementing the restrictions including closing shops and schools as well as imposing travel bans since March 18, which call on residents to stay at home.
Soldiers and police are on duty in front of a building under the enhanced movement control order (EMCO) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, April 15, 2020. 
(Xinhua/Zhu Wei)
"Sacrifices throughout the implementation of the movement control order are not in vain. The number of new cases is drastically dropping. Recoveries are increasing. The use of beds allocated for the COVID-19 cases has not exceeded 30 percent," he said.
Muhyiddin said the country has been losing 2.4 billion ringgit (560 million U.S. dollars) every single day since the measures were implemented.
Acknowledging the risk of a new wave of infections, the prime minister said the government has to strike a balance between economic recovery and controlling the outbreak, noting that some countries have seen a spike in cases after lifting their own movement restrictions.
Muhyiddin said almost all businesses and economic sectors will be allowed to resume working as usual from May 4 but needs to observe a new standard operating procedure (SOP) and other rules, such as social distancing and wearing facemasks.
A medical worker wearing protective suit with words "War Without Weapon" is seen in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, April 14, 2020. (Photo by Chong Voon Chung/Xinhua)
Individuals will also be allowed to exercise outdoors provided they observe social distancing in small groups of up to 10 people.
Businesses that involve crowds such as cinemas, entertainment outlets and Ramadan bazaars, would not be allowed to resume yet, and social gatherings including weddings, concerts, festivals and so on would also remain banned.
Religious activities of all kinds in places of worship remain banned including Friday prayers, with Ramadan related prayers and returning to hometowns to celebrate Eid al-Fitr celebrations not allowed.
Also the interstate travel ban will remain in place, with exceptions for those travelling for work or those who had been stranded outside their home states.
Schools and other educational institutions will remain closed.
■