URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/02/c_139026229.htm
ID : XINH2020050200064

Date : 2020-05-02 19:33:46
Title : Africa CDC official commends China's assistance on COVID-19
Ariticle : 
An airport worker (C) handles a box of medical supplies at Hosea Kutako International Airport in Windhoek, capital of Namibia, April 23, 2020. (Xinhua/Musa C Kaseke)
Africa CDC official Benjamin Djoudalbaye said Chinese assistance to Africa in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic has been crucial to contain the danger posed by the disease.
ADDIS ABABA, May 2 (Xinhua) -- China's assistance in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic has greatly helped in the fight against the disease in the African continent, an official at the Africa CDC has said.
Speaking to journalists, Benjamin Djoudalbaye, head of the division policy, health diplomacy and communications at Africa CDC, said Chinese assistance to Africa in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic has been crucial to contain the danger posed by the disease.
"The successful COVID-19 experience from China has been an inspiration to us," said Djoudalbaye on Thursday afternoon.
"China together with the Jack Ma foundation has organized webinars for African medical professionals on how to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic in various scenarios including in emergency set up, as well as experience sharing on field medical treatment and Intensive Care Unit treatment," said Djoudalbaye.
Djoudalbaye also said webinars on COVID-19 prevention and control of COVID-19 outbreaks have been facilitated by the Chinese government and the Jack Ma foundation.
China's medical supplies for 18 African countries arrive at the Kotota International Airport in Accra, capital of Ghana, April 6, 2020. (Xinhua/Xu Zheng)
The Africa CDC is also launching mobile health platforms, with major development partners like China expected to assist in the development of the platform.
Development partners like China are expected to boost the capacity of the Africa CDC mobile health platforms through knowledge sharing and training of African health care workers.
Djoudalbaye further commended the donation of COVID-19 medical supplies by China and the Jack Ma foundation including through the supply of Personal Protective Equipments, face masks, gloves and testing kits.
Earlier this week the Africa CDC said received the third round of medical equipment and supplies donated by China's Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation in support of the African continent's fight against the spread of COVID-19.  
■