URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/03/c_139026728.htm
ID : XINH2020050300018

Date : 2020-05-03 05:27:17
Title : Feature: Young Syrian volunteers distribute free Ramadan food parcels to poor families amid coronavirus outbreak
Ariticle : 
Volunteers pack food for later distribution in Damascus, capital of Syria, on April 29, 2020. 
(Xinhua/Ammar Safarjalani)
When Ramadan coincides with #COVID19 outbreak, young Syrian volunteers are coming together to prepare food parcels and distribute them to poor families in the war-torn country.
DAMASCUS, May 2 (Xinhua) -- During the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, a group of young Syrian men and women have come together to prepare food parcels and distribute them to the poor families in the war-torn country.
Calling themselves the Amerha Team, or Build It, the young volunteers, with a strong determination, are all university students or fresh graduates.
The protracted Syrian war has developed a special awareness among the new generation of the need to help and not being indifferent to the pains of others.
Volunteers pack food for later distribution in Damascus, capital of Syria, on April 29, 2020. (Xinhua/Ammar Safarjalani)
In the warehouse where these volunteers are working, around 20 of them, all wearing masks and gloves, were energetically packing up the food received from the retailers.
The Amerha Team, which gathers about 200 young people, distribute food parcels every year during Ramadan. For this year's Ramadan, the team aims to distribute 2,000 food parcels.
Muhammad Batha, one of the volunteers who is preparing for the master's degree , told Xinhua that he has been working with the team for two years.
"We aim to help people ... This humanitarian work is what motivates us to work and come together to help amid the heat and the coronavirus crisis," said Batha, calling their initiative during Ramadan the Month of Good.
This architectural engineer noted that the volunteer work teaches him how to give and help without taking anything in return.
Volunteers transport food items in Damascus, capital of Syria, on April 28, 2020. (Xinhua/Ammar Safarjalani)
Sedra al-Adas, a 20-year-old law school student, has been working with the team for a year and a half.
The young student said the Syrian youth have come to understand the importance of charity and volunteering as the long-running Syrian war and the ongoing coronavirus outbreak have left large numbers of households in need.
"It feels so good when you help someone and see the joy in their eyes," she explained.
Her friend, Marah al-Zain, a 21-year-old Arabic literature student, said the smile people give when receiving help inspires an unmatched sense of achievement.
Volunteers pack bottles of oil for later distribution in Damascus, capital of Syria, on April 29, 2020.(Xinhua/Ammar Safarjalani)
"During these times, we are helping those who are really in need of help amid the month of Ramadan and the coronavirus curfew so that we can see the smile back on their faces," she said.
Muhammad Fatairy, one of the team's supervisors, told Xinhua that the growing need of the poor segments of the Syrian society, including children, is what motivates them to offer help.
"This week and next week, we plan to reach 1,000 Syrian families and during the rest of Ramadan to reach another 1,000," he said.  
■