URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/29/c_139018753.htm
ID : XINH2020043000010

Date : 2020-04-29 22:00:39
Title : Global experts say Wuhan's success brings hope to global COVID-19 fight
Ariticle : 
Photo taken with a mobile phone shows cured patients waving goodbye to medical workers before leaving the Leishenshan hospital in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, April 4, 2020. (Photo by Gao Xiang/Xinhua)
-"Wuhan is a 'Yes we can' symbol amid the global efforts to tackle the spread of the epidemic," said a Cuban political commentator.
- Wuhan's victory has provided not only hope, but also valuable lessons and experience to countries and regions now combating the disease.
BEIJING, April 29 (Xinhua) -- As China has succeeded in its hardest-hit city Wuhan's anti-virus battle amid rising COVID-19 cases and deaths globally, international experts have said that Wuhan has become a symbol for the world, bringing hope to the global fight and providing experience to other countries.
On Friday, the number of COVID-19 patients in serious condition in Wuhan dropped to zero.
On Sunday, the number of hospitalized COVID-19 patients in the city also dropped to zero.
The two zeros show that China has achieved significant results in its COVID-19 prevention and control efforts at the current stage, with Hubei and Wuhan as its main battlefields, and that the spread of the epidemic in China has been basically contained.
Medical workers transfer a COVID-19 patient in severe and critical condition who is undergoing Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ward at the Zhongfaxincheng campus of Tongji Hospital affiliated to Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, April 12, 2020. 
 (Xinhua/Shen Bohan)
YES-WE-CAN SYMBOL
"Wuhan is a 'Yes we can' symbol amid the global efforts to tackle the spread of the epidemic," said Anisley Torres, a Cuban political commentator.
"China's success in managing the health crisis would not have been possible without the discipline of people and the political will of the Chinese government," Torres said.
Wuhan has become a symbol of strong will, Torres said, adding that it is possible to tackle the virus if the government, state sectors and ordinary people work together.
Serik Korzhumbayev, editor-in-chief of the newspaper Delovoy Kazakhstan, said that the zero hospitalized COVID-19 cases in Wuhan have brought hope to the world's anti-epidemic fight, which proved that the virus can be overcome even under the current conditions.
Wuhan's success shows that when encountering unknown viruses, human beings will have a greater chance to overcome them if they work together, Korzhumbayev added.
"Wuhan is not only a symbol for China, but the entire world," said Sandra Paul, a senior professor at the School of Communication at Havana University.
"It is inspiring and rewarding to know that beating the virus is possible," said Paul.
Three staff members in charge of toilet cleaning work of the temporary hospital of Jianghan pose for a photo in front of the temporary hospital in Wuhan, capital of central China's Hubei Province, March 9, 2020. (Xinhua/Fei Maohua)
VALUABLE LESSONS
After more than three months of battle against the epidemic, Wuhan's victory has provided not only hope, but also valuable lessons and experience to countries and regions now combating the disease.
Wilson Lee Flores, a columnist at The Philippine Star newspaper, said Wuhan's success shows that "the government's strong will and speedy actions, the people's unity and discipline, the use of science and technology to guide policies, and the coordination of public health services" are crucial to the fight against COVID-19.
In Nairobi, Adhere Cavince, an international relations scholar, said that the lessons the world can learn from China's success include "taking a resolute leadership from the highest level to execute the most comprehensive response," as well as "committing to scientific information and experts' advice on epidemic control."
A firefighter conducts disinfection at the Wuhan Tianhe International Airport in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, April 3, 2020. 
(Xinhua/Cheng Min)
Meanwhile, "a disciplined population that elevated communal good above individual benefits" is "instrumental" to China's achievement, added Cavince.
In Chicago, Tom Watkins, an advisor to the Michigan China Innovation Center, told Xinhua in a recent interview that "the pandemic should teach us all that we are interconnected, and that together, we are truly better."
"Finger-pointing and blame are not problem-solving, nor do they save lives," said Watkins, adding that the United States and China need to join forces and "beat this silent, deadly enemy and the global economic tsunami it has unleased."
A similar viewpoint was expressed by Lee Flores, who said that "the pandemic is the enemy of mankind," and "now many countries have reached the consensus that only with solidarity can we prevail against COVID-19."
"Attempts by some political demagogues in certain countries to maliciously politicize COVID-19 ... only worsen the problems of their own societies and threaten global cooperation on this issue," he said. "In times of global crisis like this pandemic, all countries need to unite and coordinate, instead of sowing chaos or spreading the virus of toxic disinformation." 
■