URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/05/c_139032749.htm
ID : XINH2020050500083

Date : 2020-05-05 21:00:35
Title : Glimpse of a world under pandemic
Ariticle : 
Wellington, Tokyo, Beijing, Moscow, Cairo, London, New York, Mexico City... People around the world work around the clock to stave off threats of the COVID-19 pandemic.
BEIJING, May 5 (Xinhua) -- From the East to the West, no time zone can wall itself off from the COVID-19, as more than 3,580,000 cases have been reported from over 200 countries and regions in the world.
World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Monday said that a total of 7.4 billion euros (8.07 billion U.S. dollars) has been pledged for the research and development of COVID-19 vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics.
"This was a powerful and inspiring demonstration of global solidarity," Tedros said at a virtual press conference from Geneva.
Medical workers take part in training for treating COVID-19 patients at a comprehensive hospital in Auckland, New Zealand, April 3, 2020. 
(New Zealand Ministry of Health/Handout via Xinhua)
TIME ZONE: GMT+12 HOURS
New Zealander Wendell Cook began his work from home as usual on Monday in Wellington, a new normal for him since the country started the battle against the COVID-19 in late March.
For the first time in 49 days, New Zealand reported no new COVID-19 case over the past 24 hours on Monday, with the total number of infections staying at 1,487 and the death toll at 20.
New Zealand moved from alert Level 4 to 3 last week and will stay for at least two weeks at Level 3 before a further review and alert level decision on May 11.
"I'm still working from home. I haven't been able to see friends and my parents, as they live about an hour north of here by car, so ... I probably can't see them until Level 2," Cook said.
People wearing masks walk on the street in Nagoya, Japan, April 17, 2020. (Kyodo News/Handout via Xinhua)
GMT+9 HOURS
The Japanese government on Monday officially announced its decision to extend the nationwide state of emergency for COVID-19 by nearly a month until May 31.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made the announcement at a meeting of a government task force on the coronavirus response to extend the state of emergency beyond May 6, the last day of Japan's Golden Week holiday which was the initial expiration date.
"I will extend the state of emergency I declared on April 7 to May 31. All prefectures are subject to it and there is no change to the emergency framework," Abe said during the meeting.
The Tokyo Olympic Games has been postponed by one year due to the global spread of the coronavirus and will open on July 23, 2021.
Tourists visit the Palace Museum in Beijing, capital of China, May 1, 2020. (Photo by Chen Zhonghao/Xinhua)
GMT+8 HOURS
In Beijing, the Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, has partially reopened since May 1, the first day of a five-day public holiday.
No new domestically transmitted cases of the novel coronavirus disease were reported on the Chinese mainland on Monday.
Central Hubei province has reported no new confirmed COVID-19 cases for 30 consecutive days since April 4. Hubei lowered its level of novel coronavirus emergency response from the highest to the second-highest on May 2.
Russian Su-25 jet fighters fly in formation during a Victory Day air parade rehearsal over Moscow, Russia, on May 4, 2020. (Sputnik via Xinhua)
GMT+3 HOURS
In Moscow, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu watched a Victory Day air parade rehearsal near Red Square, the TASS news agency reported Monday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has postponed all public events to mark the 75th anniversary of the World War II victory due to the COVID-19 pandemic, while the air parade will be held on May 9.
The total number of infections has seen rapid increase in recent days and risen to around 150,000, according to the country's coronavirus response center.
One of the Giza pyramids is illuminated with words "STAY HOME" during the World Heritage Day amid the COVID-19 pandemic in Giza, Egypt, on April 18, 2020. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)
GMT+2 HOURS
In Cairo, the Giza pyramid complex, a world wonders, remained closed.
Since confirming its first coronavirus case in mid-February, Egypt has confirmed 6,813 coronavirus infections, with 436 virus-related deaths.
On the wide Nile River, dinghies that once took visitors to enjoy the sunset have been docked along the river bank. Restaurants and cruises along both sides of the river also have been closed due to the pandemic.
In France, the country's Prime Minister Edouard Philippe earlier said that the current lockdown would be gradually relaxed from May 11, as the pandemic appears to have subsided across the nation.
Neighboring Spain on Monday began to lift its stringent coronavirus lockdown as the first step in its four-stage plan to return to a "new normal" after the disease infected more than 218,000 and killed over 25,000 people in the country.
The first of the four phases, or "phase zero," is a "preparation phase," involving measures such as allowing children outside for an hour a day and adults to carry out some form of exercise outdoors.
Photo taken on May 1, 2020 shows people walking past the closed Next store on Oxford Street, in London, Britain. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua)
GMT+1 HOUR
Scientists and researchers from Imperial College London have been working on treatments against the novel coronavirus.
Xu Xiaoning, chair in Human Immunology at the university, held a video conference on Monday to discuss the ongoing research with his team.
"The university is providing full support to coronavirus research programs," Xu said, adding that the pandemic did not stop his team from contacting his Chinese counterparts.
"We basically talk to our colleagues in China everyday through online video conferencing or WeChat," he said.
U.S. Navy hospital ship Comfort departs from Manhattan of New York, the United States, April 30, 2020. (Photo by Jie Fischer/Xinhua)
GMT-4 HOURS
In Manhattan, the streets were eerily quiet on Monday morning, as New York City has been in a pause for over 40 days.
By Monday morning, more than 170,000 COVID-19 cases had been confirmed in the city of 8.3 million people. Videos on LED billboards in Times Square continued advising people to stay home and practice social distancing.
A worker disinfects a street in Mexico City, Mexico, April 6, 2020. (Photo by Francisco Canedo/Xinhua)
GMT-5 HOURS
Tepoztlan, a town close to the capital of Mexico City, has taken strict measures such as "closing the business," as the peak of the pandemic in Mexico is expected to arrive in recent days.
"We've had to close everything," said Jose Luis Meza, an owner of a local hotel and restaurant. "Fortunately, personal health and people have been more privileged than business, but unfortunately we have to live without business."
The pandemic has changed the "business model" for the locals, Meza said, adding that he has already begun learning how to use e-commerce platforms to attract customers.
GMT-10 HOURS
On Monday morning, three Chinese students, who are all from University of Hawaii, were busily engaged in online courses.
Since Honolulu county announced a "stay at home" order on March 22, the university moved to online courses even though its campuses remain open.
Hu Anni, Huang Nuoxi and Liu Zhengrui have learned to cope with social distancing and frequently cook for themselves.
Hu said four hours of daily online courses and at least one hour of homework help kill the time. "More importantly, we have work to do, we have friends working together," Hu said.  
■