URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/04/c_139030024.htm
ID : XINH2020050400068

Date : 2020-05-04 20:03:26
Title : S. African gov't sets out strict measures for workplaces
Ariticle : 
Customers with face masks shop at a stationery store in Johannesburg, South Africa, May 2, 2020. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)
The South African government has announced strict measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at workplaces before the partial resumption of business on Monday. 
CAPE TOWN, May 4 (Xinhua) -- The South African government on Sunday announced strict measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at workplaces before the partial resumption of business.
Employers must take measures to protect the health and safety of everyone in their workplaces, Minister of Employment and Labor Thulas Nxesi said.
With regard to social distancing, workplaces must be arranged to ensure a minimum of 1.5 meters between workers, Nxesi said.
"If this is not practicable, physical barriers must be erected and workers must be supplied free of charge with appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)," he said.
Social distancing must be implemented in all common areas in and around the workplace to prevent crowding, including working spaces, canteens, meeting rooms, Nxesi said.
Workers must wear masks at work and employers must also require members of the public entering a workplace to wear masks, said Nxesi.
Employers must provide each employee, free of charge, with at least two cloth masks to wear while at work or commuting, he said.
They must also provide sufficient quantities of hand sanitizer with at least 70-percent alcohol content, ensure that work surfaces, equipment and common areas such as toilets, door handles and shared equipment be regularly cleaned and disinfected, said Nxesi.
Staff members test an infrared thermometer before the shop opens in Johannesburg, South Africa, May 2, 2020. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)
The minister made the announcement one day before the partial return to workplaces on Monday when about 1.5 million people will return to work. The country moved to stage four of a nationwide lockdown on May 1, down from stage five.
The government has said that the easing of the lockdown will be a carefully phased process based on a risk assessment and the necessary levels of preparation.
In addition to social distancing, a prevention directive announced by Nxesi requires employers to screen workers for symptoms of COVID-19 at the time that they report for work.
"Workers should immediately inform the employer if they experience any symptoms while at work," Nxesi said.
Workers with symptoms must be placed in isolation and arrangements made for their safe transport for a medical examination or for self-isolation, he said.
Labor inspectors are empowered to promote, monitor and enforce compliance with the directive, said the minister.
An employer who does not comply with the directive may be ordered to close their business, he said.
Failure to take the necessary measures to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 may result in criminal prosecution, Nxesi warned.
South Africa has seen a sharp rise in infections involving workers at workplaces, particularly shopping malls. In Cape Town alone, five shopping malls have been closed following outbreaks at the malls over the past few days. 
■