URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290139.html
ID : ALFR2020042900100

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Kenya: Sensitise the Disabled on COVID-19, State Urged
Ariticle : 
People living with disabilities in Nakuru town are yet to receive enough information on how to protect themselves from the deadly coronavirus.
Some of them have been spreading misleading information that since they contracted polio, they are not likely to be infected by the deadly virus.
Their spokesperson George Otieno told Nation that many people living with disabilities were not taking Covid-19 seriously.
Mr Otieno said people living with disabilities in Nakuru need to be sensitised on the need to adhere to social distancing measures and follow the Ministry of Health regulations on hygiene to cushion them against the effects of coronavirus pandemic.
"The disabled persons are very critical in stopping the spread of Covid-19 and the county and national government should loop them in their strategy to fight the virus," said Mr Otieno.
Meanwhile Mr Otieno, who is also the chairman of Nakuru County sitting volleyball team said that most of disabled persons in the county are hard hit by the effects of coronavirus pandemic.
He said most of his members were in Jua Kali sector and since the main Wakulima Market and the matatu terminus were relocated to Afraha Stadium Annex, they have lost their clients.
"Most of the disabled are small scale traders, hawkers, shoe shiners and cobblers but they are now sleeping hungry as their customers have decreased," said Mr Otieno.
Although Covid-19 has affected all Kenyans, he said the disabled were hard hit.
"Not all people living with disabilities have benefited from funds released by the government. The money is only being given to those with severe disabilities. Those who are on wheelchairs or are able to move with the help of walking sticks are not benefiting from the funds," he said.
He urged the Nakuru County government to use the available list of disabled to distribute foodstuff and any other humanitarian assistance.
He called on other well-wishers to support the disabled and help them cope with the effects of coronavirus pandemic.