URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005040531.html
ID : ALFR2020050400133

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : Nigeria: Coronavirus Partly Cause of Mass Deaths in Kano - Dr Gwarzo
Ariticle : 
Kano — 
Dr Nasiru Sani Gwarzo
 is the head of the federal government team sent to Kano to tackle the spread of the COVID-19 and unravel the mystery behind the mass deaths in the state. In this interview with the Hausa Service of the BBC on Friday, he said community transmission is on the rise and that drastic measures must be taken to contain it.
 Excerpts:
What have you discovered in Kano so far?
We came to Kano with a very strong team and we have held series of discussions with relevant authorities including the executive governor and his lieutenants. We have also visited many places and what we discovered and summarised is that what we are afraid of is what is trying to happen or rather has happened. This means that the pandemic has scaled the level of national contact, individual contact to the level of community transmission.
This news will not be welcome news but it is the hard truth. This has made it even more necessary for us to collectively tackle the issue. The period of whether coronavirus is real or not is over. Even if you don't agree with the reality of this pandemic, please do justice to others and fight against its spread.
Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here
The other issue is a subject for discussion for some other day. But what is currently happening is the rate people are contracting the virus and the death rate is really alarming.
What did you discover on the reported mass deaths in relation to the COVID-19 and the authorities' explanation of the possible cause of the deaths which they said was malaria and other sicknesses?
Everyone has an element of truth in the claim they made, but the reliable thing here is that even if the mass deaths were initially related to other ailments, coronavirus is presently the major cause of the mass deaths in Kano. Why I said everyone has an element of truth in their claim is that initially, if one is sick, the tendency was that he or she would go to the hospital to get treated or to any patent medicine store and obtain his drugs and for the rich, they can travel out for treatment while the poor seeks for assistance to get treated.
However, what is happening now is that the rich can't travel abroad for treatment and the poor couldn't get the desired assistance while the doctors are getting scared. This has no doubt contributed in the deaths of many people. There is also the COVID-19 itself, taking into consideration that the rate of the results that return positive is increasing compared to the initial stage. Initially, if you take 100 samples, you may only get five to six returning positive, but now, out of 100 samples, 80 usually return positive.
Do you mean nationwide or in Kano alone?
I mean in Kano State alone.
There is reported shortage of ventilators at the isolation centres in the state. Did you make any provision for more?
Admission of COVID-19 patients is of three levels. The first level is that of a patient that was tested and is found to be positive for COVID-19 but without any symptoms. These are the ones that the Kano State government is keeping, some of them in a hotel, and these patients can get healed without showing any symptoms.
The second level of COVID-19 patients are those that started showing some symptoms but are still active and can do things on their own; they may be placed on certain drugs as well. I was with some patients today at Kwanar Dawaki isolation centre. We spoke with them, they were responding to treatment. Some of them are waiting for their second test that will warrant their discharge.
The third level has those that require admission in hospital facility and perhaps with oxygen and those with serious cases will be admitted at the ICU. These are the ones that require ventilator. And I have reflected that in the report that I have sent to the federal government that Kano State has working ventilators and they have oxygen cylinders which I have seen - four big ones and 25 medium cylinders.
The state has 74 beds meant for severe COVID-19 patients. The state government has made provision for what is required. We also held a meeting on possible increase in the number of isolation centres that will render services for the level three COVID-19 patients in Kano.
What is your advice to Kano people?
I told the state authorities that there is the need for us to take drastic measures in the fight against the virus that may not go down well with the people of the state. It is apparent that the present situation in the state needs serious attention before it gets worse than what it is at present. And with the citizens' cooperation and commitment, we will be able to tackle the situation. The success depends on the level of cooperation from the people.