URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300271.html
ID : ALFR2020043000167

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Zimbabwe: U.S.$40 000 for Gath's Mine Hospital Facelift
Ariticle : 
Leading platinum producer Mimosa Mines has donated US$40 000 towards rehabilitating and equipping the new provincial Covid-19 isolation centre at Gath's Mine Hospital in Mashava in a major boost for the province's fight against the spread of the novel coronavirus.
The provincial taskforce recently designated Gath's Mine Hospital as the new provincial isolation centre following concerns raised by national Covid-19 taskforce deputy chair and Cabinet minister Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri over lack of intensive care unit (ICU) facilities in Masvingo.
Rujeko Clinic had earlier been identified as the provincial isolation centre, but the eight-bed health facility was rdropped in favour of the 400-bed Gath's Mine Hospital following recommendations by Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri.
The US$40 000 from Mimosa will be go towards the procurement of new beds and linen at Gath's Mine Hospital.
Minister of State for Masvingo Provincial Affairs and Devolution Cde Ezra Chadzamira said while the donation would largely be spent on sprucing up Gath's Mine Hospital, part would also benefit isolation centres across the province's seven districts.
"We are happy that Mimosa Mines donated US$40 000 to help in our fight against the spread of Covid-19," he said. "It is pleasing to note that Mimosa is physically operating in the Midlands but decided to lend a hand to the people of Masvingo.
"This is a sign of good neighbourliness and must be applauded. The lion's share of the donation will be used to purchase new beds and linen for our new provincial isolation centre in Mashava but we will make sure that every isolation facility in the province benefits from this fund. We are very pleased with what Mimosa has done."
Minister Chadzamira said the money had made it possible for the province to fast-track the rehabilitation of various isolation facilities.
The provincial Covid-19 taskforce has been working flat out to boost ICU facilities across the different isolation centres to cater for emergency situations.