URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300759.html
ID : ALFR2020050100006

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Botswana: Rakhudu Family Donates Beans, Sorghum
Ariticle : 
Serowe — A farmer at Zuruzwane cattle post near Dimajwe, Mr Ramotlatsi Rakhudu, has donated 40 bags of sorghum meal and 40 bags of beans towards COVID-19 Relief Fund as a response to the appeal by His Excellency the President Dr Mokgweetsi Masisi.
The donation ceremony was conducted at his farm on April 29, where members of COVID-19 task team received the donation with gratitude.
Mr Rakhudu, together his wife Kethamile, stated that it was their will to assist the government to fight the novel Coronavirus, which is wiping the globe.
They said their will was to help the less-privileged yearly, adding that the government could also contact them anytime when help is needed .
Mr Rakhudu said the import crop restriction enabled local framers a chance to sell their produce into the market, adding that this year he managed to produce and was still harvesting beans, sorghum, maize, watermelons, sweet reed in his 242 hectare field.
For harvesting they engaged 19 labourers to help the 14 permanent workers who also cared for their 450 cattle.
Receiving the donations, Serowe Sub-district Council chairperson, Mr Lesedi Phuthego, also a member of COVID-19 crew, expressed delight towards Rakhudu family for assisting the government during this tough time.
He commended them for their selflessness and effort to make a difference in life. The chairperson challenged others to emulate the family as such would go a long way in uplifting the lives of beneficiaries, mostly affected by extreme social distancing.
Agronomist, Ms Bakang Autlwetse, said the lockdown had boosted local horticultural farmers as there was a high demand for their produce, especially selling in the formal retail sector.
Meanwhile another farmer Mr Thabo Hoki pledged to donate 10 bags of beans, which he said would be handed to COVID-19 team soon.
Source : BOPA