URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290753.html
ID : ALFR2020042900240

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Kenya: Coca-Cola System Donates Sh30 Million Towards Coronavirus Sensitization and Relief in Kenya
Ariticle : 
Nairobi — The Coca-Cola Foundation, the Coca-Cola Franchise in Kenya and its bottling partner Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (CCBA) have contributed over Sh30 million worth of support to Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO), Kenya Red Cross and Amref Health Africa to bolster their efforts towards curbing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kenya.
The support in form of financial aid; assistance in the distribution of sanitizers produced by Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC); and Coca-Cola beverage product donations to medical facilities will complement ongoing government and community organizations' efforts in fighting the spread of the virus.
"We value our customers, employees, and the communities within which we operate. We, therefore, would like to do our part to help prevent further spread of the virus, while also supporting their needs," said Phillipine Mtikitiki, General Manager of Coca-Cola East and Central Africa Franchise.
The Foundation is providing Amref Health Africa with Sh17.5 million to support health workers working in medical facilities, as well as support for communities by providing water to those in need across the country.
"We continue to receive immense support from the private sector to support our community response to COVID-19. The funds we have received from Coca-Cola will see us reach communities in Nairobi's informal settlement of Kibera and Muoroto and Kisumu Ndogo in Mombasa and Kilifi counties respectively. We will not stop until the battle against this pandemic is won" said Amref Health Africa in Kenya's Country Director Dr Meshack Ndirangu.
SHOFCO, on the other hand, will benefit from Sh10 million that will be used to create awareness and provide handwashing points in the densely populated informal settlements of Kibera and Mukuru in Nairobi.
"This grant, will enable us to scale-up our door to door Coronavirus awareness campaign as well as conduct screening tests in partnership with the Ministry of Health. For these densely populated areas, it is imperative that we continue to empower the communities with information to protect themselves and their families as we set up more handwashing stations to help them maintain the required hygiene standards to control the spread of the virus," said Kennedy Odede, Founder Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO).
"CCBA is also using its wide distribution network across the country to distribute sanitizers manufactured by KPC. We are offering the use of our extensive product distribution network to collect and distribute consignments of free hand sanitizers to County Commissioner offices across the country for distribution to the public," said Xavier Selga, Managing Director, CCBA.
"We are also providing hydration support with our beverages to Kenya Red Cross for distribution to quarantine and treatment facilities for use by patients and medical staff," added Selga.
The support is part of Coca-Cola's global efforts to help control the spread of COVID-19 with Kenya being among the 13 African countries in East and Central Africa receiving donations.
Coca-Cola is also using its marketing platforms such as social media, radio and TV to create awareness on hygiene through Stay Safe messages. In addition, it is using its product labelling to pass on similar messages to consumers of its beverages.
"This is a rapidly changing situation that we are constantly monitoring. We are guided by both the government and WHO guidelines, and are adapting our efforts and responses as needed," said Xavier.