URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005041108.html
ID : ALFR2020050500026

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : Angola: Sja Praises Efforts of Journalists Against COVID-19
Ariticle : 
Luanda — The Union of Angolan Journalists (SJA) praised, last Sunday, the effort of media professionals in the fight against the pandemic of covid-19.
In the message in the ambit of the 3rd May celebration, World Press Freedom Day, the SJA reaffirms the need for companies in the sector to guarantee bio-safety conditions for professionals, in order to reduce their exposure to the risk of the new coronavirus contamination.
On the other hand, SJA considers it to be an opportunity to reaffirm the need for the journalistic class to reaffirm the necessity for a self-regulation that is capable of protecting its ethics and professional dignity.
The note highlights the fact that the date is celebrated in an environment of apprehension for many Angolan journalists, frightened by the possibility of losing their jobs due to the difficulties experienced by private companies.
Journalists advocate more openness
Still in the ambit of the World Press Freedom Day, several activities were carried out countrywide to mark the date.
In the north-central Malanje Province, journalists have been advocating greater openness for public media bodies and other sources of information, with a view to greater access to information and the exercise of an increasingly impartial and pluralistic journalism.
This position was defended last Sunday by some journalists interviewed by ANGOP, such as Pedro Tavares (Radio Malanje), Celestino Caculo (Angolan Public Television - TPA) and the first secretary of the MPLA's Specialized Committee of Journalists in Malanje, Ferreira Júnior.
Zaire provincial government praises journalists
The provincial government of Zaire last Sunday in Mbanza Kongo City, highlighted the role and commitment of media professionals in the region.
In a message of congratulations, the provincial government reiterates its commitment to continuing with actions in favour of strengthening the mass media sector in this part of the national territory, whose mission favours the exercise of citizenship and the strengthening of democracy in Angola.
"The provincial government recognizes the role and commitment of the class to defend and preserve the rule of law, at a time when the Angolan nation is making efforts to diversify the economy and fight corruption", states the document.
Officially instituted in 1993 by Unesco, 03 May commemoration was approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations (UN).
The date was chosen because it was the anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration, approved during a seminar organized by UNESCO on "Promotion of Independence and Pluralism in the African Press", held in Windhoek, Namibia, from 29 April to 03 May 1991.
The Declaration considers freedom, independence and pluralism of the media to be essential principles for democracy and human rights.