URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290231.html
ID : ALFR2020042900121

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Liberia: National Rice Federation Extends Appreciation to Legislature for Inclusion in COVID-19 Stimulus Package Rice Distribution
Ariticle : 
Monrovia — The president of the National Rice Federation (NRF) has extended thanks and appreciation to the Legislature for including the NRF on the committee for the supply of Liberia staple food, rice, to ordinary Liberians during this COVID-19 pandemic.
NRF president Mohammed V. Kamara said that naming his federation as part of the country's upcoming rice distribution process is a big step forward in the Liberianization process.
Kamara told this newspaper that they are ready to work with other members of the committee for the smooth distribution as the Liberian government fights against the spread of COVID 19.
According to him, this will help strengthen their capacity as they are completely involved in rice production and processing in the country.
The NRF president hoped, that in addition to them being a part of the committee, they can play a leading role in the distribution, which he stated will make them more relevant in the eyes of their international partners.
"We are now trying to collaborate with our federation partners around the world. We have been told by some if everything goes on well, they will load some food items on cargo airlines to send to us for us to distribute to Liberians," he stated. He didn't, however, name those partners, who might be sending the food items.
Appeal to Finance Minister
Meanwhile, Kamara has appealed to the Minister of Finance and Development Planning, Mr. Samuel Tweah to transfer the US$750,000, to the Afriland Bank, allegedly agreed on between them as soft loan for rice processors.
According to him, on March 26, 2020, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the NRF and the Finance Ministry for the transfer of the money but the Ministry is yet to do the transfer.
He called on rice farmers to be patient as he continues to work with the Finance Ministry for the transfer of the money.
He also used this occasion to urge Liberians not to take the COVID-19 pandemic as a joke.