URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005050135.html
ID : ALFR2020050500081

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : Kenya: COVID-19 Recoveries in Kenya at 173 After 6 Discharged
Ariticle : 
Nairobi — The number of people who have recovered from COVID-19 in Kenya has increased to 173.
This is after 6 more patients were discharged from hospital on Monday.
“This is good news, we have six patients who have recovered,” said Dr Mercy Mwangangi, a Chief Administrative Secretary at the Ministry of Health, who issued an update Monday.
During the briefing, Mwangangi reminded Kenyans that the success in defeating the virus that has so far infected 490 people squarely lies on the part played by citizens in adhering to guidelines issued by the government.
“The fight against coronavirus is still on and we cannot afford to relent on our efforts to bring the curve down. We must soldier on,” she said.
The country’s caseload hit 490 on Monday after 25 new infections were confirmed in Mombasa and several estates in the capital Nairobi.
“I dare to say these figures will continue to rise. Things are not back to normal,” said Dr Mercy Mwangangi, a Chief Administrative Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
In Nairobi, the new cases announced Monday are spread out in Mathare, Embakasi, Umoja and Kawangware which remains a hotspot since last week.
“The virus is now fully in our communities and the rate of infection is not going down,” said Dr Mercy Mwangangi, a Chief Administrative Secretary at the Ministry of Health. A six-month-old baby was among the new infections.
Cases in the country have been rising fast in the last three days, with an average of 20 cases a day.
There were 30 cases confirmed on Sunday and 24 on Saturday.
The increase in cases is attributed to the mass testing initiative that kicked off last week, even though the government has decried low interest from the public in taking the test.
“We still need to maintain these containment measures. They are not for fun; this is not a child’s play. There is crowding in hotels, people lining up at the cashier. We need to remind ourselves of the pictures we were seeing in other countries in February and March. Do we really want to go there?” Mwangangi posed.
She urged every citizen to be responsible and play their part in helping the government combat the spread of the virus that has so far claimed 24 lives in the country.
In Nairobi, the new cases are spread out in Mathare, Embakasi, Umoja and Kawangware which remains a hotspot since last week and among areas densely populated areas.
Globally, there were 3.5 million infections and more than 250,000 deaths by May 4.