URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300124.html
ID : ALFR2020043000079

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Nigeria: Afelokhai Confident Enyimba Will Dislodge Plateau Utd After COVID-19 Break
Ariticle : 
Enyimba number one goalkeeper, Theophilus Afelokhai is confident that the 'Peoples elephants' will dislodge Plateau United and go on to win the 2019/2020 Nigeria Professional Football League, NPFL, title once the ongoing COVID-19 break is over.
Before the indefinite suspension of the league on March 18 due to the coronavirus that has brought all sporting activities across the world to a temporary halt, Plateau United were on top of the NPFL table with 49 points from 25 matches.
They are followed closely by Rivers United and Lobi Stars of Makurdi who have amassed 45 and 43 points respectively from the same 25 matches.
However, despite being in fifth position with 36 points, 13 points less than the leaders, Enyimba still fancy their chance of winning the league because they have five outstanding matches to play.
Considering their intimidating credentials, Enyimba are therefore confident that if the league is not stopped abruptly as was the case in 2018, they will still overtake Plateau United for their ninth domestic title.
Afelokhai who spoke to Daily Trust yesterday said having crashed out of the CAF Confederation Cup, they have turned their attention to the domestic league and are aiming at the title.
He, therefore, said it will be gross injustice for anyone to stop the league when Enyimba have five outstanding matches which they believe would catapult to the summit of the league.
The former Kano Pillars captain said instead everyone should pray for the COVID-19 pandemic to be over so that normal footballing activities would resume.
"It will be wrong for the title to be handed to any club just like that. Many clubs are in contention for the title. Although Plateau United are at the top, we are confident that when we play our remaining matches, we would topple them.
"Instead of contemplating such a thing, I think we should collectively pray for this pandemic to be over. Let us have a worthy champion. With five outstanding matches in hand, we can conveniently win the title.
"As a matter of fact, other countries in Africa are waiting on FIFA and CAF to show the way forward. None has said anything about bringing the league to a sudden end. Ours should not be different," he advised.
Afelokhai maintained that the LMC should explore all possible means to ensure that the remaining matches are played.