URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290726.html
ID : ALFR2020042900251

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Ghana: Battling COVID-19 - Zoomlion Disinfects Kotoka Airport... and 3 Others in K'si, T'di, Tamale
Ariticle : 
Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL), through its Vector Control Unit, has ramp up in its efforts to support the central government's battle against the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
In view of that, the company has fumigated and disinfected the country's premier airport, Accra Kotoka International Airport, and three others in Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale.
Briefing the media at the KIA, Head of the Zoomlion Disinfection Team, Reverend Kwame Addae, disclosed that the exercise was simultaneously done in all the four airports in the country.
He noted that it was aimed at keeping the airports health and also to prevent the spread of the virus.
In the case of KIA, Rev. Addae said, the whole airport environs including the project site and its clinic were disinfected.
He went on to add that facilities disinfected at the Accra Kotoka International Airport included the tarmac, parking lot, arrival hall, passenger terminals 1, 2, 3, VVIP terminal, offices, lounges, etc.
According to him, in addition to the team of sprayers used in the exercise, his outfit also used cannon atomisers to spray open spaces of the airport.
Minister of Aviation, Joseph Kofi Adda, who was at the KIA to monitor the exercise, expressed the government's appreciation to Zoomlion and its partners for their continuous selfless support in the country's fight against COVID-19.
He said the exercise was targeted at making sure that all the airports in the country were safe for use.
However, the minister disclosed that domestic flights would be allowed to operate from May 1, 2020.
Following the COVID-19 pandemic, Zoomlion as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR), had disinfected a number of tertiary institutions across the country, state agencies, churches among others. Significantly, this initiative was still on-going.
This initiative by the waste management giant is aimed at supporting the government's efforts in containing this global pandemic which has spread to almost every country, crashing economies and breaking health-care systems, leaving in its wake a huge death toll.