URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290725.html
ID : ALFR2020042900252

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Ghana: Former President Mahama Supports 2 Health Facilities With PPE
Ariticle : 
Nalerigu — Former President John Dramani Mahama on Friday extended his support for the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic to the North East Region as he donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to Walewale Municipal Hospital and the Baptist Medical Centre (BMC).
The items worth thousands of Ghana cedis included bottles of liquid soap, gallons of alcohol-based hand sanitiser, boxes of examination gloves, packs of bottled water, gowns, boxes of nose mask and many others.
The items were presented on behalf of former President Mahama by Dr Thomas Anaba, former medical director of Greater Accra Regional Hospital.
He stated that the support was in response to the lack of PPE by some health officials across the country.
Dr Anaba indicated that the former president urged all to support the fight against the spread of COVID-19.
"The former President is reaching out to all facilities around the country to support them with items that will help them do their work. He extends his profound gratitude to all health workers across the country for the good work you are doing," he stated.
He commended the health workers and all categories of workers in the fight against COVID-19 for their toil and sacrifices for the nation.
"The former President asked us to thank you for your sacrifice in the fight against this pandemic," he stated.
Dr Anaba urged them to remain steadfast in the fight against the virus despite challenges confronting them on the field.
The Medical Superintendent of the Walewale Hospital, Dr Shahadu Shavila, who received the items on behalf of the hospital, commended the former President for the gesture.
He said the items presented would go a long way to help the facility in the fight against the coronavirus.
Dr Anaba was accompanied by Dr Prosper Akambong and other members of the NDC COVID-19 team.