URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005050703.html
ID : ALFR2020050600022

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Namibia: Sporting Activities Uncertain During Stage 2
Ariticle : 
Although the countrywide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has been lifted, it will still take a while before sport can return to normal.
President Hage Geingob last Thursday announced that the lockdown had been partially lifted, but that the state of emergency will continue with eased restrictions under Stage 2.
"As we prepare to gradually reopen social and economic activities, a balance must be found between protecting life, mental health and livelihoods. The state of emergency declared on 17 March will remain in force for a period of six months and may be extended, subject to the changing country situation," he said.
Stage 2, which comes into effect from today, will continue to 2 June and will see a gradual reopening under strict precautions.
All members of the public will be required to wear face masks in public places, while people will be permitted to travel domestically between regions and within towns and cities without restriction.
His statement, however, emphasised that contact sport and sporting events, as well as gyms and exercise centres are deemed to be 'high risk' and will not be permitted to resume during Stage 2.
Each stage of restriction will have an average observance period of two incubation periods, which is 28 days. Stage 3 will therefore last from 2 June to 30 June, and will see more moderate precautions, while the final Stage 4, which will bring an end to the state of emergency and will introduce the 'new normal' will begin on 30 June.
Geingob, however, adds that the actual duration of each stage may be reduced or extended, subject to monitoring reports and the changing situation in the country.
According to the Covid-19 stages of restriction issued by the government, high risk activities such as contact sport and sporting events could resume in Stage 3 (ie from 2 June) subject to social distancing and hygiene protocols.
However, that appears to be a contradiction in terms since contact sport can obviously not take place within social distancing norms. Furthermore, it is unclear íf non-contact sport will be allowed to take place and which specific codes this will refer to.
The chief administrator of the Namibia Sport Commission, Freddy Mwiya yesterday said they will clarify the situation soon.
"We will have the final information on Tuesday (today). We are waiting for a letter to indicate which codes are allowed or not. We are awaiting some regulations from the Ministry of Justice, and when that is received, the Ministry of Sport will put directives in place," he said.
Sporting events unlikely - Dr Haufiku
The national coordinator of the Covid-19 task team Dr Bernard Haufiku, meanwhile, said it's unlikely that sporting events will be allowed to take place soon.
"It's unlikely that we will have any sport activities, especially during the first half of this year, but we'll see how things unfold in the second half of the year. There are three scenarios that we have to consider: No new cases of the coronavirus; sporadic cases, which will be manageable; and a wave of new cases. So far nine of the 16 cases in Namibia have fully recovered, which shows that Namibia is on the right path," he said.
Ät this stage I can just urge our sportsmen and women to keep fit, to adhere to social distancing, and to put on a mask in public places. The fitness of sportsmen is paramount so we strongly recommend that you do exercises and keep fit. I'm very confident that we will catch up and get through these stormy waters," he added.
Haufiku was interviewed at a press conference on Thursday where the MTC Nestor Sunshine Academy and the MTC Salute Boxing Academy handed over essential food items to a second group of 100 boxers and coaches at the Independence Arena in Katutura.
"We are heeding the call of the President to join in the fight against the coronavirus and help each other. Kiriata Kamanya (of MTC Salute Boxing Academy) and I came together to see how we could help so we decided to support our boxers. We don't know when it will end, but together we can defeat it," Tobias said.
Monika Shikongo a social worker at the Ministry of Health and Social Services added that they are giving social support to the community.
"Our office is open 24 hours a day and we are doing telephonic counselling to give social support and to look after our community," she said.
The deputy minister of Sport, Emma Kantema-Gaomas thanked the boxing academies for their contribution.
"It gives us pleasure to witness the efforts of our sports people and today we see how sport can play a role in the lives of our people. We need assistance from the private sector in our efforts to eradicate poverty, and this gives us hope and inspires us to do better," she said.