URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290226.html
ID : ALFR2020042900124

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Liberia: Humanitarian Organization Provides Rice for Underprivileged Liberians As Liberia Battles COVID-19
Ariticle : 
Monrovia — An international humanitarian organization, Theresa Nah Educational Foundation (TNEF), has officially launched it Anti-Coronavirus Awareness Campaign in Liberia. The organization, with support from Blissful Transformation Incorporated, USA began its awareness campaign with the donation of 40 bags of 25kg rice, oil, face masks, hand gloves, including hundreds of Coronavirus brochures and stickers to several needy groups in the Township of Gardnersville, Montserrado County.
Since the imposition of the State of Emergency (SOE) by the Liberian Government, many Liberians, especially the less fortunate and vulnerable ones have been faced with serious economic difficulties.
In order to assist the Government of Liberia in the fight against the devastating Coronavirus pandemic, the Theresa Nah Educational Foundation, through its Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Sgt. Eric Oppong Twum, of the US Army, lobbied with Madam Sieria Williams, CEO and Mrs. Sylva Orange, Treasurer of Blissful Transformation Incorporated, a humanitarian group based in South Carolina, USA, to support its Anti-Coronavirus awareness program in Liberia.
Making the donation on behalf of TNEF, the Program Director, Mr. Jeremiah Paye welcomed the measures being instituted by the Liberian Government, including the 'stay home policy' intended to curb the spread of the Coronavirus In Liberia. "This donation is the beginning of many more humanitarian assistances and services that the foundation and its partners are willing to provide to needy Liberians. We urge you abide by all the health protocols to keep Liberia safe. We call on all Liberians, in and out of Liberia to contribute towards easing the economic constraints faced by many Liberians at the margin of society, especially during this Coronavirus period."
Beneficiaries of the donation include the Private School Teachers Association of Gardnersville, Barnersville Junction Association for Development (BAJAD), the Hope in God Blind Association, Mother Kebbah Kerkulah Teachers in Jacob's Town, Paynesville, amongst others.
Speaking in separate remarks, representatives of the various groups commended the Theresa Nah Educational Foundation and Blissful Transformation Incorporated, and urged them to continue their humanitarian works towards bettering the lives of many Liberians.
It can be recalled that when the foundation's CEO, Sgt. Twum visited Liberia last December, he provided several pieces of computers to a number of schools and used clothings for several kids in St. John River District, Grand Bassa County.
The Theresa Nah Educational Foundation is a non-political, non-profit and non-governmental organization that seeks to provide educational opportunities for the less fortunate, kids and vulnerable individuals in the US, Liberia and the entire world.