URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300018.html
ID : ALFR2020043000040

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Kenya: Employers Urged to Observe Safe Health Practices at Workplaces to Defeat Coronavirus
Ariticle : 
Nairobi — Labor Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui has urged employers in workplaces to continue observing a safe and healthy environment for their employees as the country continues to battle the coronavirus pandemic.
Kenya had recorded 363 infections and 14 deaths by April 27.
In his message during this year's world day for safety and health at work, Chelugui underscored the need for employers to be critical about the safety of their employees especially amid the rising cases of infections in the country.
"Our workers in the public and private sectors hold the future of our country's economy. Without sound safety and health systems in place none of the sectors can thrive," he said.
He emphasized that all the precautionary measures provided by the government should be observed in work places in a bid to break the cycle of infections.
The government has been categorical that the observance of social distancing is key in work places especially after employers were urged to adopt a leaner working staff following the outbreak of the virus last month.
Chelugui has in particular asked employers to allow absenteeism when a worker shows symptoms of the virus or when one is caring for an individual who has or is suspected to have the symptoms.
CS Chelugui also pleaded with employers to develop infection control plans and polices and asses the risk of exposure with respect to every work activity and put the necessary mitigation measures.
He at the same time announced that the construction of the National Occupational Safety and Health Institute which aims at enhancing the training of workers in the critical area of safety and health is almost complete.
Word day for safety and health at work is commemorated annually on April 28 to promote the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases globally.
This years' theme is dubbed: stop the pandemic, safety and health at work can save lives.