URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005040435.html
ID : ALFR2020050400089

Date : 2020-05-03 00:00:00
Title : Namibia: Informal Traders At Walvis Bay Await Partial Return to Business
Ariticle : 
Informal traders at Walvis Bay will know by Tuesday if they can resume their business during the next stage of Namibia's anti-Covid-19 restrictions.
Informal traders at the harbour town have not been trading since 16 March, when the Walvis Bay municipality adopted government directives to combat the new coronavirus disease and banned all informal trading activities.
Last week the municipality started issuing trading permits and held briefing sessions on how traders should conduct themselves in the marketplace.
Only those selling fresh vegetables and dry traditional food such as mahangu, dry spinach and kapenta fish, will be allowed to operate from the newly revamped Ekutulatika open market. No other traders will be allowed on the street.
Operating rules in the marketplace are:
- No more than 46 traders per day;
- Traders will be operating on a two-day rotational basis (trading for two days and giving another trader a chance on other days);
- Every second stall will be used to ensure adherence to social distancing;
- Twenty customers only allowed in the marketplace at the same time.
"The opening of the markets can present challenges if the vendors do not adhere to the set regulations," said Tulimekondjo Iishitile, the municipality's manager for economic development, in a statement on the local authority's social media platform. "Vendors should take the measures seriously or else their trading permits will be revoked," he cautioned.
Municipal health officials will on a regular basis be monitoring activities in the market to ensure the set regulations are followed.
Yesterday, the municipality started to demolish old trading structures on pavements and in a parking space opposite the Ekutulatika open market.
Some traders - especially those selling second-hand clothes and building materials - were not happy with that move by the local authority.