URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004290320.html
ID : ALFR2020042900170

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Liberia: COVID-19 Gradually Spreading Across Liberia, Seven Counties Affected
Ariticle : 
Monrovia — The novel coronavirus has spread across at least seven counties in Liberia with Montserrado County remaining the most affected, reporting at least 129 cases of. There is an overall of 141 cases confirmed cases in Liberia.
Nimba, Margibi, Maryland, Sinoe, Grand Kru, Rivergee and Maryland Counties each have a recorded case except for Nimba and Margibi which have recorded 5 and 3 cases, respectively.
The country is also experiencing a gradual surge in the number of positive cases with eight new cases recorded in the last 24 hours. The number of confirmed cases on April 26 was 133.
According to the National Public Health Institute, there are 736 contacts under follow-up. Of these contacts, 361 are health workers. 48 of the 736 contacts became confirmed cases.
Over the last 24 hours, at least three top officials of government have been declared positive for COVID-19. This followed an April 11 joint security meeting.
The head of Liberia Drug Enforcement Agency (LDEA), Mr. Marcus Soko, died of the virus at the 14 Military Hospital over the weekend.
Also announcing his positive result on Sunday, Minister Dean when asked whether he was in any of the security meetings with Soko, Minister Dean responded in the affirmative. "Yes! April 11, the Joint Security met and subsequently on another day. I am the chair."
Following the death last week of DEA boss, Marcus Soko, Justice Minister Dean, Deputy Police Chief Sadatu Reeves, Deputy DEA Director Marcus Zeahyoue and now Minister Nagbe have all tested positive. LNP 102 Marvin Sackor, who escorted Soko to the hospital is currently under quarantine.
According to Dr. Mosoko Fallah, head of the National Public Health Institute (NPHIL) at least 31 officials of administration came in contact with the late LDEA boss, Soko and members of the joint security team including their families are currently being tested and monitored.
addressing a news conference Monday, Dr. Fallah confirmed three had tested positive of COVID-19, many of those were in the April 11 meeting of senior security officials' briefing on the deadly virus in Liberia.
The meeting presided over by Justice Minister Dean also included representatives from the Ministry of National Defense, the National Security Agency(NSA), the Drug Enforcement Agency(DEA), the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization, the National Security Advisor to the President; representatives from the Armed Forces of Liberia, the Executive Committee on Corona Virus (ECOC), headed by Broh and Senators Steven Zargo(Liberty Party, Lofa), Jonathan L. Kaipay(Liberty Party, Grand Bassa) and Conmany Wisseh(Unity Party, River Gee). Information Minister Lenn Eugene Nagbe was also in attendance.