URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202004300761.html
ID : ALFR2020050100005

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Angola: COVID-19 - Unnecessary People Circulation Worries Society
Ariticle : 
Luanda — Unnecessary circulation of people, mostly without protective elements, in contempt of the Presidential Decree on the State of Emergency, is leaving the society worried, calling for a stricter action from the country's defence and security agencies to curb the spread of covid-19.
Northern Lunda-Norte province governor appealed to members of the public to cooperate with the State regarding the prevention of the new coronavirus infections, by staying at home or face the law over disobedience.
Concerned about the attitude of Chitato municipality residents who insist on roaming around without protective elements like masks and gloves, Ernesto Muangala called on people to move around only in cases of extreme need, in order to avoid the spread of the disease.
The official encouraged the defence and security bodies to tighten their action, with a view to avoiding the movement of people in the province.
In Luena city, eastern Moxico province, residents insist on ignoring pandemic prevention measures, especially those seeking bank and other services, as they do not respect distance and many do not use face masks. In a survey conducted on Wednesday in Luena, Angop learned that concentration of people at bank ATMs and stores was remarkable, in contempt of covid-19 prevention measures put in place by the competent authorities.
School teacher Euclides Salomão called on the competent authorities to adopt stricter measures against disregard for preventive measures.
In Mbanza Congo city, in northern Zaire province, residents also disobey the measures contained in the Presidential Decree on the State of Emergency.
Here too, Angop found on Wednesday that crowding of stores was visible everywhere, with people not wearing masks and gloves, and failing to comply with recommended social distancing.
Anabela Vicente, a cashier in a store department of cosmetics, suggested that law enforcement officials should ban those who disobey the covid-19 preventive measures from entering public places.
Pedro Maiuma, a shop manager, showed discontent at the behaviour of many people who refuse to wear masks and keep recommended distancing.
In central Huambo, main opposition Unita party's deputy secretary in the region, Teodoro Fernando Nambelo, stressed the need for stricter compliance with the Covid-19 pandemic prevention measures, in order to avoid possible cases of community transmission.
Speaking at a press conference, the politician said the Government has the obligation to create conditions to detain those who disobey the State of Emergency declared by President João Lourenço.
He said his political organisation fully supports the President's decree designed to prevent the proliferation of the virus in the community.
The State of Emergency in Angola has been in effect since March 27.
Since its last extension, on April 26, with some relaxation of the rules, a large number of people across the country are found in disregard with the recommendations for greater social distancing, as well as other precautionary measures, which leads to increased calls for compliance.
Angola has so far reported 27 positive cases of Covid-19, of which two died and seven recovered, two of whom discharged from hospital. One of the cases is a local transmission infection.