URL : https://allafrica.com/stories/202005050780.html
ID : ALFR2020050600009

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Namibia: Lockdown Aftershock Lingers As Namibia Enters Stage 2 of Exit Plan
Ariticle : 
The government has been advised to introduce structural reforms and assess risks as the country gradually opens for business.
President Hage Geingob last week announced that the countrywide lockdown to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus will not be extended.
Starting today, Namibia moves into stage 2 of the four-stage exit plan. During this stage, all businesses will be allowed to operate, subject to proper use of personal protective measures and equipment.
Analysts, however, warned that the government must maintain a balance between saving livelihoods and saving lives.
Namibia went into lockdown late in March 2020 after 16 Covid-19 cases were confirmed in the country. To date eight cases have recovered, with no new cases reported in three weeks.
Speaking to The Namibian yesterday, economist Salomo Hei said Namibia should consider structural reforms in resetting the economy as business activities resume today.
He said the reforms should focus on growing the economy and creating jobs post-Covid-19.
Hei said reopening the country is a choice between health and the economy, and Namibia has not done enough testing compared to its neighbours.
"Covid-19 presents Namibia the opportunity to consider structural reforms in resetting the economy. Other countries have done that. The economy cannot simply function in the manner it used to pre-Covid-19," he said.
Another economist, Omu Kakujaha-Matundu, predicted a deeper economic contraction beyond the 6,9% estimated by the Bank of Namibia, despite the resumption of economic activity.
Kakujaha-Matundu said social distancing might be difficult for certain industries such as fisheries because of the number of people working in a factory.
"Restarting the economy is a very good thing, but we should not forget that all our trading partners are still on lockdown, so the external demand would still be stifled. However, local demand will still be there. We need to test the waters and see how things pan out in stage 2," he said.
Economist Klaus Schade said the impact of the lockdown on different economic sectors differs and so will the lifting of the lockdown.
Sharing Matundu-Kakujaha's sentiments, Schade said for some industries, activity will be slow due to the loss of income over the past few weeks, and it will take time before they reach a new normal.
"Economic activities will pick up again, foreign exchange will be generated through export sectors such as mining and fisheries, and slowly employers and employees will earn an income again and stimulate demand," he said.
Schade, however, warned that the recovery path will be long, and there is a risk that not all businesses will survive these challenging times.
GEINGOB ON STAGE 2
Geingob believes closing all entry points and restricting the movement of people helped to prevent the spread of the disease.
"While we recognise that these extraordinary measures have caused great disruptions to our daily lives, they were necessary and effective. I therefore urge all Namibians to continue complying with the regulations," he said.
Geingob said based on the country's experience, available data and gauging the level of national preparedness, there is merit in relaxing some restrictions.
"As we prepare to gradually reopen social and economic activities, a balance must be found between protecting life, mental health and livelihoods," he said.
The progression from one stage to another will depend on developments on confirmed cases, and the details of stages may change, Geingob said.
Stage 2 means all economic activities where effective social distancing can be enforced should be allowed.
During this stage, Cabinet said restaurants and cooked food outlets, including informal markets, should continue selling takeaways, but temperature screening should be compulsory as people enter workplaces.
The buying and selling of alcohol remain prohibited throughout the country.
Additionally, sanitisers should be made available at the entrance of every workplace and their use should be compulsory.
Moreover, people above 60 years and those with special health conditions should continue to practise teleworking for a few weeks as the country is observing the incidence of the virus. Public gatherings restricted to a maximum of 10 people and contact sports are not allowed.
Wearing masks will be compulsory when individuals leave home.
Informal markets have been reopened with social distancing and hygiene measures in place.
FINAL STAGES
Stage 3 will include all stage 2 activities.
Public gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 20 people and the general population will be encouraged to work or study from home where possible.
Meanwhile, stage 4 will be the new normal and will see pupils returning to school, taking into consideration all stage 3 activities.
Large gatherings such as sporting events, religious services, concerts and conferences would likely only be permitted once a vaccination or effective treatment is available.
International borders would open to resume flights for international travel and tourism.