URL : https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/05/riots-brazil-venezuela-prisons-coronavirus-live-updates-200502232536530.html
ID : ALJA2020050300014

Date : 2020-05-03 00:56:00
Title : Riots in Brazil, Venezuela prisons amid coronavirus: Live updates
Ariticle : 
UN calls for probe into Venezuela prison riot that left 46 dead; seven guards held in Brazil prison riot freed. 
Here are the latest updates:
Taha Al-Mutawakel, the Houthi public health minister, urged the United Nations to increase the number of testing kits for COVID-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus. 
"We are sending this appeal given the global situation of coronavirus, the ongoing assault against our country, the embargo on our country, and because the amount of the PCR tests which the World Health Organization has sent to us is very little and is about to run out," he told reporters in Sanaa on Saturday.
The UN's Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is calling for an investigation into a prison riot in western Venezuela that left 46 people dead and 75 injured.
The OHCHR says on Twitter that it was "gravely concerned" about the incident on Friday at the Los Llanos penitentiary in Portuguesa state. The South American country's prisons are infamous for extreme levels of violence and poor conditions.
"We urge the authorities to conduct a thorough investigation, tackle overcrowding, and guarantee basic rights," the office says.
The riot came shortly after prison officials barred inmates' family members from bringing them food, a measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus within prisons.
Prison authorities in Brazil say 10 guards and five inmates suffered non-critical injuries following an uprising at a prison in Manaus, a state capital in the Amazon rainforest.
The inmates held seven guards hostage for more than five hours, but the situation has been brought under control, according to the state's public security secretariat.
Relatives of inmates say the prisoners at Puraquequara prison were protesting the suspension of all family visits and poor conditions at the lockup amid the coronavirus pandemic.
Hello and welcome to Al Jazeera's continuing coverage of the coronavirus pandemic. I'm Zaheena Rasheed in Male, Maldives, with all the latest updates. 
You can find all the key developments from yesterday, March 2, 
here
. 