URL : https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-52462114
ID : BBCH2020042900002

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : US Congress abandons return to Washington after lawmakers revolt
Ariticle : 
        
            
                                
                                                                 
Image copyright
                 
Getty Images
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    A sign in Congress mandates social distancing for lawmakers                
            
                    
The US House of Representatives will not reconvene next week following a revolt from lawmakers who complained that it was too soon to return.
On Monday, members were told to return to the Democratic-controlled chamber.
However, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said on Tuesday the plan was scrapped after consulting the House doctor. 
The volte-face came as the confirmed number of US Covid-19 cases passed 1m.
The Republican-controlled Senate still plans to return on 4 May.
    
        
            /**/            (function() {                if (window.bbcdotcom && bbcdotcom.adverts && bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync) {                    bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync('mpu', [1,2,3]);                }            })();            /**/        
    

"We made a judgement that we will not come back next week but that we hope to come back very soon," Mr Hoyer said.
Washington DC remains under a stay-at-home order until 15 May. Officials say the infection rate is still climbing.
The Washington DC area, which includes suburbs in Maryland and Virginia, have recorded over 38,000 cases and more than 1,600 have died.
The number of Americans who have tested positive for the virus stood at 1,002,498 on Tuesday afternoon, according to Johns Hopkins University, and over 56,700 people in the US have died.
Democratic leaders were faced with a backlash from members of their own party over the plans to return next week. 
            
                                                
                                            
                    
            
                                                
                                            
                    
            
                                                
                                            
                    

A SIMPLE GUIDE:  
What are the symptoms?


LIKE 9/11 EACH DAY: 
A New York paramedic's diary


FACTORY HOTSPOT: 
The untold story behind America's biggest outbreak


GUNS & CHEESE: 
The unexpected items deemed 'essential'


REASON TO HOPE: 
The good that may come out of this crisis


            
                                                
                                            
                    
On a private call with House members, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a congresswoman from Florida, told party leaders the plan was "dangerous" and several complained that they had no way of managing childcare, according to the Politico US media outlet.
On Tuesday, Mr Hoyer announced that the return to Washington would be postponed. "The House physician's view was that there was a risk to members that was one he would not recommend taking," he said.

Mike Pence appears without virus mask at hospital

The fake health advice you should ignore

Will coronavirus go away in the summer?

However, there is pressure to reconvene the chamber in order to pass key legislation amid the coronavirus pandemic.
President Donald Trump, who called for Congress to return, scorned the decision, saying: "Democrats are enjoying their vacation".
The questions over how to reopen Congress for business are likely to renew calls for proxy sessions and remote voting, said BBC North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher. Currently, rules prevent members of Congress from voting remotely, though there are efforts to change.
On Tuesday, the House and Senate Sergeants at Arms extended the ban on visitors to the capitol until 16 May.
Only lawmakers and their staff  as well as credentialed journalists and visitors on official business  will be allowed to enter.
The decision was made "out of concern for the health and safety of congressional employees as well as the public", they said in a joint statement.
Some key questions remain about how lawmakers can conduct routine business on Capitol Hill.
Most congressional cafeterias are buffet-based and some lawmakers sleep in theirs office and rely on the gym to be open for showering.
If unable to sleep at work, lawmakers may be forced into Washington DC hotels, which are costly and could quickly become overcrowded.
It also remained unclear whether lawmakers will have their temperatures taken at the door, how they will practise social distancing in the chamber and whether any lawmakers will be permitted to vote in absentia. 
            