URL : https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-52553229
ID : BBCH2020050600009

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Coronavirus: Prof Neil Ferguson quits government role after 'undermining' lockdown
Ariticle : 
        
            
                                
                                                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    Prof Neil Ferguson appeared before the Science and Technology Committee in March                
            
                    
Prof Neil Ferguson has quit as a government adviser on coronavirus after admitting an "error of judgement".
Prof Ferguson, whose advice to the prime minister led to the UK lockdown, said he regretted "undermining" the messages on social distancing.
It follows a Daily Telegraph story that a woman, said to be his "married lover", visited his home in lockdown.
His modelling of the virus's transmission suggested 250,000 people could die without drastic action.
What are social distancing and self-isolation rules?
    
        
            /**/            (function() {                if (window.bbcdotcom && bbcdotcom.adverts && bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync) {                    bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync('mpu', [1,2,3]);                }            })();            /**/        
    

This led Prime Minister Boris Johnson to announce on 23 March that he was imposing widespread curbs on daily life aimed at stopping the spread of coronavirus.
In a statement, Prof Ferguson said: "I accept I made an error of judgement and took the wrong course of action.
"I have therefore stepped back from my involvement in Sage (Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies).
"I acted in the belief that I was immune, having tested positive for coronavirus and completely isolated myself for almost two weeks after developing symptoms.
"I deeply regret any undermining of the clear messages around the continued need for social distancing."
He called the government advice on social distancing "unequivocal", adding that it was there "to protect all of us".
            
                                                
                                            
                    
            
                                                
                                            
                    
Prof Neil Ferguson is one of the world's most influential disease modellers.
He is director of the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis.
The centre's mathematical predictions advise governments and the World Health Organization on outbreaks from Ebola in West Africa to the current pandemic.
It was that group's work, in early January, that alerted the world to the threat of coronavirus. 
It showed hundreds if not thousands of people were 
likely to have been infected in Wuhan
, at a time when Chinese officials said there were only a few dozen cases.
But he shot to public attention as "Professor Lockdown".
In mid-March, 
the maths showed the UK needed to change course
 or a quarter of a million people would die in a "catastrophic epidemic".
Those calculations helped transform government policy and all lives.  
            
                                                
                                            
                    

A SIMPLE GUIDE:  
How do I protect myself?


AVOIDING CONTACT: 
The rules on self-isolation and exercise


HOPE AND LOSS: 
Your coronavirus stories


LOOK-UP TOOL: 
Check cases in your area


TESTING: 
Can I get tested for coronavirus?


            