URL : https://www.bbc.com/news/52533585
ID : BBCH2020050500013

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : 'Murder hornets' land in the US for the first time
Ariticle : 
        
            
                                
                                                                 
Image copyright
                 
States of Jersey
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    Asian hornets were first spotted in the US last fall                
            
                    
Even as the US remains under attack from the coronavirus outbreak, a new terror has arrived: "murder hornets".
The 2-inch long Asian giant hornets have landed in the US for the first time, spotted on the west coast. 
Multiple stings are deadly to humans and in their "slaughter phase" the hornets destroy honeybees, whose bodies they feed to their young.
Scientists are now on a hunt for the hornets, hoping to eradicate the species before they wipe out US bees. 

Loss of bumblebees driven by 'climate chaos'

Asian hornet queen is UK's first of 2019 

'One nest' could spread Asian hornets

Though they typically avoid people, in Asia, "murder hornet" stings are thought to cause as many as 50 human fatalities a year, according to the New York Times.
    
        
            /**/            (function() {                if (window.bbcdotcom && bbcdotcom.adverts && bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync) {                    bbcdotcom.adverts.slotAsync('mpu', [1,2,3]);                }            })();            /**/        
    

The hornets made their first North American appearance in August 2019, in British Columbia, Canada. Months later, in December 2019, the flying insects were reported south of the border, in Washington State. 
Washington State University (WSU) are unsure how or when the hornet first arrived in North America, but beekeepers in the region have reported gruesome hive deaths in recent months. Scientists are bracing for further emergence of the species, which begins its life cycle in spring.
            
                                                
                                                 
Image copyright
                 
Getty Images 
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    The murder hornets can destroy a beehive in hours                
            
                    
The hornets are "shockingly large", said Todd Murray, a WSU scientist and invasive species specialist. "It's a health hazard, and more importantly, a significant predator of honeybees." 
The insects, roughly the size of a matchbox, have large yellow-orange heads, prominent black eyes, and a black and yellow striped abdomen. 
"They're like something out of a monster cartoon with this huge yellow-orange face," said Susan Cobey, a bee breeder with WSU entomology department in a press release. 
The Asian giant hornet's life cycle begins in April, when queens come out of hibernation, and begin to feed and seek out subterranean dens to build their nests. Once their habitats are built in the summer and autumn months, worker hornets are sent to find food. 
With their sharp, spiked mandibles, the hornets decapitate honeybees, using the bodies to feed their young. The hornets can destroy a honeybee hive in a matter of hours.
            
                                                
                                                 
Image copyright
                 
Getty Images
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    Scientists are hoping to eradicate the species in the US                
            
                    
Though beehives are their primary target, when threatened the hornets can attack people. Multiple stings can kill humans, even those who are not allergic. 
In Japan, where they're most common, murder hornets kill roughly 30 to 40 people each year. 
"It was like having red-hot thumbtacks being driven into my flesh," Vancouver Island beekeeper Conrad Bérubé told the New York Times. He was stung through a bee suit and sweatpants underneath. 
            
                                                
                                                 
Image copyright
                 
Getty Images
                            
                        
                
Image caption
                
                    The hornets can kill humans after multiple stings                
            
                    
The WSU scientists will begin trapping queen murder hornets this spring, aiming to detect and eradicate the species. 
Populations of honeybees and other pollinators in the US were already under pressure. Between 1947 and 2017, number of honeybee colonies in the US plummeted from 6 million to 2.5 million.  And last year, researchers from the University of Maryland reported that 40% of the country's honeybee colonies died in a single winter, between October 2018 and April 2019 - the largest loss of its kind. 
Pollinators, most often honeybees, are responsible for one of every three bites of food taken in the US, and increase the country's nation crop values every year by more than $15bn (£12bn), according to the US Department of Agriculture. 
            