URL : https://www.cbc.ca/news/health/remdesivir-covid-19-fauci-1.5549499
ID : CBCH2020050100001

Date : 2020-04-29 22:46:15.352000
Title : Antiviral drug remdesivir shortens time to recover from pandemic virus, top U.S. health official says
Ariticle : 
A top U.S. health official said Gilead Sciences Inc's experimental antiviral drug remdesivir is likely to become the standard of care for COVID-19 after early results from a key clinical trial on Wednesday showed it helped certain patients recover more quickly from the illness caused by the coronavirus.
  
 The study, run by the 
U.S. National Institutes of Health
, tested remdesivir versus usual care in 1,063 hospitalized coronavirus patients around the world. At the White House, NIH's Dr. Anthony Fauci said the drug reduced the time it takes patients to recover by 31 per cent  — 11 days on average versus 15 days for those just given usual care.
  
 Gilead earlier on Wednesday said remdesivir helped improve outcomes for patients with COVID-19 in the government-run trial, and provided additional data suggesting it worked better when given earlier in the course of illness. The statement sent its shares up seven per cent on the Nasdaq.
  
 "The data shows that remdesivir has a clear cut significant positive effect in diminishing the time to recover. This is really quite important," Fauci told reporters at the White House, likening it to a moment in 1986 "when we were struggling for drugs for HIV and we had nothing."
  
 "This will be the standard of care," Fauci predicted, adding, "The FDA, literally as we speak, is working with Gilead to figure out mechanisms to make this easily available to those who need it."
  
 Several studies have painted a mixed picture of its effectiveness, and Fauci cautioned that the full data still needs to be analyzed.
"Although with 31 per cent improvement doesn't seem like a knockout 100 per cent, it is a very important proof of concept, because what it is proven is that a drug can block this virus."
Despite the excitement, Dr. Lawrence K. Altman, global fellow at The Wilson Center in Washington, DC, said more information is needed.
  
 "While a new study offers a glimmer of hope that ... remdesivir has an effect against COVID-19, determination of its benefit for the general population must await release of pertinent details to evaluate the study's findings and 
 scientific analysis comparing them to other studies of the drug that have shown mixed results," he said in a statement.
Watch | Doctor talks of the 'desperation, sadness and hope' of life support
Dr Mike Ryan, head of the WHO's emergencies program, told an online briefing it can sometimes take a number of publications to determine a drug's efficacy.
  
 "Clearly we have the randomized control trials that are underway both in the U.K. and U.S, the 'Solidarity trials' with WHO. Remdesivir is one of the drugs under observation in many of those trials. So I think a lot more data will come out," he said.
  
 Ryan added: "But we are hopeful this drug and others may prove to be helpful in treating COVID-19." 