URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/Y-jkL9pmVziAppZgUiON9w?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020043000001

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Anti-epidemic Lohas new attitude, the command center launched the &quot;anti-epidemic new life campaign&quot;, please respond-Ministry of Health and Welfare Disease Control Department
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-04-30
With the united efforts of the frontline epidemic prevention, medical staff and the whole country, the domestic COVID-19 (Wuhan pneumonia) epidemic situation has stabilized. In order to balance the epidemic prevention and the quality of life of the people, the Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center said today (30) that the recent A new attitude towards epidemic prevention and LOHAS will be promoted. From outdoor activities and catering, the public will be encouraged to practice the &quot;anti-epidemic new life movement&quot;. Apart from implementing epidemic prevention, they can also relax and enjoy life.

The command center further pointed out that as the domestic epidemic situation slowed down, in order to gradually return the people to normal life, a new attitude towards epidemic prevention and LOHAS will be launched, hoping that the public will maintain personal epidemic prevention measures (washing hands frequently, unable to maintain social distance and wearing masks when taking public transportation) ), You can rest assured to participate in various outdoor activities, such as: watching outdoor concerts, art performances and sports events, or engaging in activities that are beneficial to physical and mental health, such as walking, sports, and tourism. In addition, when people go out to restaurants or street vendors to dine, they can choose shops with appropriate dining distances and partitions to provide delicious meals. The above implementation details and start-up time will be invited to discuss with relevant ministries and will be announced in the near future.

The May Day holiday will begin tomorrow, and the command center has specially launched the &quot;Guidelines for the Prevention of Epidemic Diseases during the Holidays of the People during the COVID-19 Epidemic Period.&quot; When you go out, you should maintain a social distance of 1.5 meters indoors and more than 1 meter outdoor. If you can&#39;t maintain it, you should wear a mask. And please pay attention to the health of yourself and your relatives and friends. If you have fever or respiratory symptoms, you should wear a mask and do not go out. If you need medical treatment, do not take public transportation to reduce the risk of the epidemic.
                            
annex
                                
                                    
                                    
Guidelines on Epidemic Prevention of People&#39;s Holidays during the COVID-19 Epidemic Period
                                
                        