URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/-W166DPeQi9IwyjbO8O2qg?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050100002

Date : 2020-05-01 00:00:00
Title : Conditional opening of long-term photo agency, real-name appointment reservation visit-Department of Health and Welfare Disease Control Department
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-01
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center said today (1) that the domestic COVID-19 (Wuhan Pneumonia) epidemic situation has slowed down and stabilized. Considering the current situation of the epidemic situation and the public&#39;s eagerness to make visits, the public is now open to visit long-term institutions to visit residents. In order to prevent the risk of the spread of the epidemic in the organization, the organization and visitors must still comply with the following management rules:
	
Field visits are recommended to adopt an appointment system to manage the number of visitors, and log in with real names to manage visitor&#39;s personal information, health statement and travel history and other information.
	
Restrict people with risk of Wuhan pneumonia infection or suspected symptoms such as fever, respiratory symptoms, abnormal sense of smell, taste, etc. from entering the institution to ensure the health of residents.
	
Each resident can visit only once a day, and the principle of the same visiting space at the same time is limited to 1 group of visitors. The maximum number of visitors in each group is 3 (including children). Visitors and residents must wear masks throughout the journey.
	
Residents who have the ability to move out of bed should be arranged to meet in public areas as far as possible: in principle, only one resident is allowed to visit the area during each period, or more than one resident is allowed to visit in different blocks, and ensure that each block The spacing is in line with the social distance (indoor ≧ 1.5 meters, outdoor ≧ 1 meters), and it is better to have separate lines for different blocks.
	
Residents who do not have the ability to move and cannot get out of bed (for example: completely bed-ridden) can enter the resident housing visit. In principle, only one resident is allowed to be visited per visit per housing period, and the visitor&#39;s movement should be properly planned.


The above relevant rules will be adjusted according to the development of the epidemic situation; for details, please refer to the &quot;Wuhan Pneumonia Area&quot; of the CDC Global Information Network (https://www.cdc.gov.tw)
Health and Welfare Institutions and Honorary National Home in response to COVID-19 (Wuhan Pneumonia) Visitor Management Operation Principles
」。                    