URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/nSPmxHFx7RvJ1uAyGXY_LA?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050200001

Date : 2020-05-02 00:00:00
Title : &quot;Viral transmission is highest within a week of onset&quot; Taiwan listed in the American Medical Association Journal of Internal Medicine-Department of Health and Welfare, Department of Disease Control
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-02
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center said today (2) that the CDC and the team of Professor Lin Xianhe of the National Taiwan University School of Public Health (Professor Lin is the corresponding author) used the first 100 cases of COVID-19 (Wuhan Pneumonia) diagnosed in Taiwan and their diagnosis. Tracking data of close contacts, analyzing the circumstances and time points of close contacts, the highest risk of infection. The study pointed out that the diagnosed person has the highest viral infection within a week of this disease. This conclusion was published in the American Medical Association. &quot;Journal of Internal Medicine&quot; and published today (May 1st, US time).

The command center pointed out that the study found that most of the contact time of infected contacts with index cases fell within one week after the onset of the index case, and it was mainly dominated by living contacts and family members. It was highest at the time of onset and began to decline after a week. The American Medical Association Journal of Internal Medicine is a highly influential medical journal in the world. The content of the publication will be noticed by all countries in the world, and the medical professions of various countries are also proud to publish it in this magazine. Not only has Taiwan been affirmed again, the research results will also help countries around the world to prevent epidemics.

In addition, based on recent foreign scholars&#39; mathematical model estimation and virus test research on the spread of the new coronavirus, it can be inferred that the most infectious interval of patients may fall from two days before the onset to about a week after the onset. Since it is often difficult to detect symptoms or intervene in time at the early stage of the onset, it is still an important part of the prevention and treatment strategy to wear a mask in a timely manner to protect yourself or maintain the necessary social distance.

The command center said that according to these research findings, when designing prevention and treatment strategies in the future, it will be possible to focus more on the risk interval before onset to early onset of disease, and provide more precise reference for adjustment of epidemic prevention policies to effectively use public health and medical resources.
                            
annex
                                
                                    
                                    
Contact Tracing Assessment of COVID-19 Transmission Dynamics in Taiwan and Risk at Different Exposure Periods Before and After Symptom Onset
                                
                        