URL : https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/jSUGY1mOzK1rHeBi4yzuKA?typeid=9
ID : CDCT2020050200002

Date : 2020-05-02 00:00:00
Title : Returnees from overseas will inform first that all elderly children and children with chronic diseases will be admitted to the epidemic prevention hotel-Department of Health and Welfare Disease Control Department
Ariticle : 
                            
Release Date: 2020-05-02
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center said today (2) that in view of the continuing overseas COVID-19 (Wuhan Pneumonia) epidemic, from 0:00 on May 4, Taiwan time, people entering the country from overseas should fill in the &quot;Immigration Health Declaration&quot; before boarding. The &quot;Notice of Home Quarantine&quot; also confirms whether the residence meets the home quarantine conditions to ensure the safety of domestic epidemic prevention.

The command center further stated that if the people returning to the country live with an elderly person over 65 years old (inclusive), a child under 6 years old (inclusive), a patient with chronic disease (such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes or lung disease, etc.), or no individual Those who use special rooms (including bathroom equipment) should stay in anti-epidemic hotels after entering the country; those who declare false information after investigation may be fined up to 150,000 yuan.

The command center pointed out that there have been confirmed cases in 186 countries / regions worldwide, and the total number of confirmed cases has reached more than 3.38 million, indicating that the international epidemic is still serious. People who meet the above conditions should go directly to the epidemic prevention hotel after returning home to avoid getting sick during the quarantine period of their own homes, and inadvertently spread it to their family members. The epidemic prevention hotel can accommodate 6,933 beds. As of April 30, 1,860 people were accommodated.

The command center once again called for people to wash their hands, avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth, and do cough etiquette during home quarantine. If they have fever or cough and other uncomfortable symptoms, they should not go out for medical treatment by themselves. Local care centers, and follow the instructions to seek medical treatment, do not take public transportation means, violation of home quarantine regulations, the maximum fine is 1 million yuan.