URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/cac-giai-phap-nguoi-dan-o-chung-cu-can-lam-de-tranh-mac-covid-19-20200501100147592.htm
ID : DANT2020050200007

Date : Saturday 02/05/2020 - 06:40
Title : Solutions residents should take to avoid Covid-19
Ariticle : 

On the morning of May 1, information from the Department of Health, Ho Chi Minh City said that 4 cases were announced to be cured after the course of treatment, which has recently re-found a comeback with Covid-19, who is currently being cared for and monitored. at Cu Chi field hospital. The positive cases were: patient 92 (discharged on April 14), patient 207 and patient 151 (discharged on April 18); Patient 224 (discharged from the hospital on April 20). The health status of all 4 patients was stable.


Four people in Ho Chi Minh City were positive for Covid-19 after being declared cured


A case of Covid-19 infection being treated at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases was a 43-year-old male pilot of British national who is currently in intensive care. In the past few days, the patient did not get worse but his lung congestion has not improved. Currently the patient is running ECMO, mechanical ventilation, dialysis, treatment with antibiotics, antifungal, and severe prognosis.

Particularly in the case of patient No. 92, the active monitoring process after treatment, the Department of Health has detected a second test sample of the patient positive for SARS-CoV-2. Exploiting information from patients noted, after discharge, patients residing in block B2, apartment 1A-1B Nguyen Dinh Chieu, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City. In order to avoid the risk of the disease spreading and spreading in the community on April 30, the authorities blockaded the apartment building and conducted inspection samples for people at risk.


Patients who were positive for Covid-19 were referred to Cu Chi field hospital for treatment


After the above case, in order to provide knowledge to people living in apartment buildings, to minimize the risk of Covid-19 infection, the Centers for Disease Control, Ho Chi Minh City has made specific recommendations to the community. co-residents. Accordingly, residents must regularly wash their hands with soap and clean water, especially immediately after going home from outside; cover nose and mouth when coughing or sneezing; Avoid putting hands on eyes, nose, mouth, do not spit indiscriminately.

When work is necessary, it is necessary to leave the house, so talk is limited, keep a safe contact distance of 2m when going to public places; limiting contact with surfaces when using elevators or stairs; Restricting to crowded places, wearing masks when going to crowded places. Absolutely do not focus on people in the apartments.



Resident of 1A-1B apartment Nguyen Dinh Chieu has been isolated because of Covid-19 case (photo: Pham Nguyen)



When at home, should regularly open doors and windows, limiting the use of air conditioning; daily house cleaning with common cleaning solutions, especially door handles, stair handrails, railings; collect daily waste and dump it in the prescribed place; strictly comply with the regulations on prevention of Covid-19 epidemic.

If you find that your body shows fever, cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, contact your local health care provider for advice and visit the nearest health facility for examination and treatment. When there is a confirmed case of or suspected isolation from a place of residence, people should strictly follow the above recommendations and follow the instructions of the apartment management and administration board.


There have been many condominiums in Saigon that were blockaded and isolated due to Covid-19 epidemic (photo: Pham Nguyen)


Before 1A-1B apartment blockade, since the first Covid-19 case in Ho Chi Minh City up to now, many apartments have been blocked because of infection or contact with patients. . Typically, Zone B of T4 building of Masteri Thao Dien apartment (District 2); A1 Gold View apartment building (District 4); zone A of Central 2 building, Vinhomes Central Park (Binh Thanh district); M-One South Saigon (District 7) and The Ascent (District 2).

The health sector warns that the apartment building is a place where many people live, the risk of infection is always high, people absolutely do not neglect, but must raise their awareness of alertness and disease prevention to protect their health. of yourself, your family and the whole community.

Yunshan




Tag:


COVID-19

blockade of apartments

isolation




