URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/benh-nhan-tu-vong-do-nhiem-covid-19-co-chung-nhung-dac-diem-gi-20200501095807127.htm
ID : DANT2020050100009

Date : Friday 01/05/2020 - 11:34
Title : What are the characteristics of a person dying from Covid-19 infection?
Ariticle : 

Chinese experts conducted a study to assess the clinical and subclinical characteristics of a group of Covid-19-infected patients who died at Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, China. The hospital is designated by the Chinese government to specialize in treating patients with severe or critical Covid-19 infection.

In which researchers evaluated 113 deaths due to Covid-19 that had been autopsied.



Scans of chest CT images in patients dying and recovering from Covid-19 infection.



Accordingly, the average age of the group of deaths (68 years) is significantly larger than the recovery group (51 years). Male sex predominates in patients who die (83; 73%) compared to those who recover (88; 55%).

Chronic hypertension and other associated cardiovascular diseases are reported to be more common in mortality groups than in recovering patients.

Fever and cough are the most common symptoms of onset in patients who have died and have recovered. The proportion of patients reporting these symptoms in the two groups was similar.

However, research has also shown that dyspnea, chest tightness are more common clinical signs in dying patients than in recovering patients.

The average time from onset of illness to death is 16 days (ranges from 12 to 20 days).

Commonly recognized complications in mortality patients include: acute respiratory distress syndrome, type I respiratory failure, sepsis, heart failure ...

Patients with cardiovascular disease are more likely to have heart complications. Regardless of a history of cardiovascular disease, acute heart injury and heart failure are more common in patients who have died.

The average time from the onset of symptoms to death (death group) was 16 days and the average time from the first symptom to discharge (recovery group) was 26 days. The average time from admission to death is 5 days and the average time from admission to discharge is 16 days.

According to the study, the progression of pneumonia and systemic infection usually occurs in the first two weeks and can determine the progression of the disease (self-healing or severe progression) and the outcome of the disease. (death or survival).

In addition, the proportion of health workers among patients who died (1; 1%) was significantly lower than patients who recovered (18; 11%).

Severe acute respiratory syndrome due to SARS-CoV-2 infection can cause both pneumonia and systemic inflammation, leading to multi-organ dysfunction in high-risk patients. Acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure, sepsis, acute heart damage and heart failure are the most common serious complications in patients with severe Covid-19 infection.

However, scientists also recognize some limitations of the research. For example, almost all deceased patients are classified as serious or critical illness, while a large proportion of recovering patients can be classified as moderately ill. However, the high proportion of cardiac complications in deceased patients is important, so early monitoring and supportive care is essential.

In addition, nearly one-third of patients who have died of consciousness disorder when hospitalized, can lead to a lack of information (especially detailed history and subjective symptoms). Therefore, experts believe that there is a need for further research on risk factors.

The research is published in BMJ Magazine.

Hà An
(follow
The BMJ
)




Tag:


Coronavirus

Wuhan pneumonia virus




