URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/tu-ngay-45-benh-vien-bach-mai-kham-benh-tro-lai-20200429083432118.htm
ID : DANT2020042900009

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 10:02
Title : From 4/5, Bach Mai Hospital has returned to the hospital
Ariticle : 

With the aim of ensuring the highest safety for patients and health workers, gradually recovering medical examination and treatment and screening for early detection of Covid-19 patients, Bach Mai Hospital has issued a development plan. deploying medical examination and treatment in the new phase of Covid-19 epidemic.

Accordingly, up to May 3, the hospital only receives serious and serious cases that are beyond the capacity of the lower levels; dialysis patients with dialysis and peritoneal dialysis ...


From May 4 to 15, the hospital is expected to only accept cases like the above period and patients suffering from diseases and groups of patients who are allowed to use referral papers in the calendar year and have appointment for re-examination.

Accordingly, the Examination Department works from 5:30 am to 4:30 pm, all days of the week from Monday to Saturday. Patients who come to the clinic for appointment will be notified by phone, bring a follow-up appointment paper (also value), health insurance cards, ID cards.

In that note, do not bring family members, except in case of need (elderly people with disabilities, disabilities) is accompanied by 1 family member. Make medical declarations honestly. Always wear a mask, disinfect hands before and after going to the clinic.

The hospital recommends that the one-way walkway (exit - entrance) be properly divided according to the instructions of medical staff, spaced 2 meters away. Limiting movement by elevators, giving priority to use cases of elevators such as elderly people with mobility difficulties, disabled people, wheelchair users.

The period after May 15
,
if the situation of Covid-19 disease does not have any complicated developments, apart from the above-mentioned patients, the Hospital will admit more emergency patients in the community; receiving patients transferred from other medical examination and treatment facilities; partially restored surgery session. Expected to receive only 30% of the hospital beds.

For units directly involved in medical examination and treatment, hospital management is required to ensure a separate area for receiving patients without SARS-CoV-2 results, isolating patients under treatment. Covid-19 suspected or a positive SARS-CoV-2 result awaiting referral to Central Tropical Hospital 2. Minimum distance between patient beds is 2m. At the same time, the unit needs to estimate the number of masks, personal protective equipment for health workers and patients.

If the Covid-19 epidemic develops in a complicated, new way, the hospital will have an operation plan suitable to the situation.

Earlier, on March 18-19, Bach Mai Hospital detected two cases positive for SARS-CoV-2, two female nurses, Central Tropical Diseases Center. Immediately, the hospital conducted disinfection, closed the center, isolated the entire medical center. 96 patients were screened for transfer to the Central Hospital for Tropical Diseases.

After that, another positive patient appeared at C4, Heart Institute, Bach Mai Hospital. Then through screening tests in the community and in the hospital found more outbreaks in the Neurology department and the hospital canteen area provided by Truong Sinh Company catering services.

On March 28, the hospital was blockaded, quarantining all medical staff, family members, patients. On 12/4, the Hospital was officially lifted the blockade.

Nam Phuong




Tag:


Bach Mai Hospital

Coronavirus

Medical insurance treatment




