URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/be-gai-1-tuoi-mac-ung-thu-hiem-chong-chat-kho-khan-vi-covid-19-20200504215009122.htm
ID : DANT2020050500004

Date : Tuesday 05/05/2020 - 06:18
Title : 1-year-old girl with rare cancer piled up difficult because of Covid-19
Ariticle : 

It all started when Kirsten Smith and his 1-year-old daughter - Zoe to visit her husband&#39;s family in Idaho Falls, USA.


Instead of the inherent mischief of a 1-year-old child, Zoe proved annoyed when playing with her and her uncle. Strangely, he even threw away his toy and had problems getting up.

&quot;At first, I thought that this behavior was just because my child was uncomfortable when he was away from his mother, which is common in children of this age,&quot; said Kirsten Smith.

The bad feeling prompted this woman to take her son to see a doctor in the area. At this time, the doctor diagnosed that Zoe had an ear infection. However, the doses of antibiotics prescribed by the doctor, after that, did not show the effect.

&quot;This is the first time we have children but we still know that there is something wrong,&quot; Smith said. Just as the young couple thought, after taking Zoe to visit a large hospital, the scan results showed that this 1-year-old girl had a rare blood cancer, called &quot; Chronic myeloid leukemia ”(CML).


Specifically, CML is a disease of malignant chronic myelopathy, characterized by the proliferation of differentiated mature granulocytes, resulting in an increased number of leukocytes in peripheral blood with sufficient Adult stages of granulocyte line.

After being diagnosed with leukemia, Zoe and her mother were transported by plane to Intermountain Children&#39;s Hospital for treatment. Another major problem facing the Zoe family is: Her father and other family members are unable to go to the place where Zoe is being treated, because of the anti-epidemic policies of Covid-19.


Smith recalls: “My husband called the Hospital and they said he couldn&#39;t visit Zoe unless she died. This makes us feel like our daughter is dying. ”

The Covid-19 epidemic not only caused Zoe to lose a great source of emotional support from her family, but also directly affected her treatment. Accordingly, since the outbreak, the blood banks of US hospitals have become very scarce, because people fear the risk of SARS-CoV-2 virus infection when donating blood. This situation makes Zoe rarely receive enough blood transfusion.


“She sometimes has lower platelet and red blood cell counts than normal, which makes her exhausted and painful. As a mother, seeing my daughter like that made me unable to hold back tears, ”said Smith.

According to the family, Zoe began chemotherapy to treat cancer. In addition, this 1-year-old girl also had bone marrow transplant, with costs up to more than $ 150,000. Zoe&#39;s family has launched a campaign to raise money for charity to cover her medical expenses.

Minh Nhat

According to Kutv

