URL : https://dantri.com.vn/xa-hoi/ha-noi-nam-cong-nhan-sot-cao-nhieu-ngay-o-kieu-ky-am-tinh-voi-sars-co-v-2-20200502142521951.htm
ID : DANT2020050200014

Date : Saturday 02/05/2020 - 14:43
Title : Hanoi: Male workers with high fever for many days in Kieu Ky were negative for SARS-CoV-2
Ariticle : 

Earlier this afternoon, Hanoi Health Department had confirmed test results of male workers in Kieu Ky rough, Gia Lam district. Mr. Hoang Duc Hanh - Deputy Director of Hanoi Department of Health, said the test results showed that this male worker was negative for Covid-19.



District functional forces blockade the roads leading to high-temperature cases for many days in Kieu Ky commune, Gia Lam district (Hanoi) (Photo: Viet Truong).



Before that, noon 2/5, exchanged with PV
People intellectual
, leader of Gia Lam District Propaganda Department (Hanoi City), said that there appears a quick test case positive for Covid-19. The functional forces conducted disinfection spray and blockade the entire living area of this person in Kieu Ky commune, Gia Lam district.

&quot;A few days ago, he had a fever and was admitted to Gia Lam District General Hospital. After a day, he was transferred to Duc Giang General Hospital, and one day later he was transferred to the Hospital. Tim. At Tim Hospital, a quick test showed a positive result for Covid-19, &quot;said the head of Gia Lam District Propaganda Department.



Medical vehicles are transferred to (Photo: Writing School).



Also according to the leader of the District Propaganda Department, this case was later transferred to the Central Tropical Hospital for re-examination. Functional forces also conducted disinfection spray and blockade the entire living area of this suspected case.

By the early afternoon of this afternoon, test results from the Central Hospital for this case were negative for SARS-CoV-2.

As of this morning (2/5), the number of Covid-19 cases in our country has remained at 270. And 51 patients with Covid-19 are being treated and monitored health at 9 clinics, Healing. In particular, central hospitals treat and monitor the health of 40 patients; 10 provincial hospitals treat, monitor and isolate 10 patients and 01 district is the patient. The majority of patients are in stable health.


Tran Thanh




Tag:


lockdown

Gia Lam

suspected of being Covid-19




