URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/hoa-toc-tiem-chung-tro-lai-trong-mua-dich-covid-19-20200428232527543.htm
ID : DANT2020042900006

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 07:40
Title : &quot;Rapid fire&quot; re-vaccinated during the Covid-19 season
Ariticle : 

Dr. Nguyen Huu Hung, Deputy Director of the Department of Health, Ho Chi Minh City signed a high-speed dispatch (April 27) on the organization of vaccinations in the situation of Covid-19 epidemic. Accordingly, based on the Directive (19 / CT-TTG) dated 24/4/2020 with the relevant notices and official dispatch of the Ministry of Health, Government Office, National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Ho Chi Minh City. vaccinations will be rolled back after the suspension period of nearly 1 month.


Ho Chi Minh City will hold a re-vaccination to protect the achievements of the expanded immunization program


The Department of Health assigns the City Center for Disease Control to urgently develop a plan to organize full complementary vaccination for the subjects after the suspension period, ensuring full implementation of epidemic prevention and safety measures. strains. In addition, the Centers for Disease Control is responsible for advising the Department of Health to issue a set of criteria for evaluating safety against disease in vaccination facilities before 4/5/2020.

For private vaccination facilities in the area, the Department of Health assigns district health clinics to strengthen supervision and inspection of the safety of Covid-19 epidemic prevention at vaccination facilities.

The Department of Health requires relevant agencies to prepare appropriate vaccination plans, informing vaccination subjects according to different time frames to avoid crowding. Organize the diversion and guidance for vaccination subjects, ensuring no more than 20 people at a time in a vaccination area. Keep a minimum distance of 2m between people when participating at the vaccination sites.

Areas awaiting pre-vaccination, screening and pre-vaccination counseling, immunization and post-vaccination monitoring must be clean, ventilated and disinfected. Establishments have designated areas for handwashing with soap or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer for use by vaccinated persons.

Health workers and people who are vaccinated must apply personal protective measures such as wearing a mask, washing their hands or disinfecting their hands regularly. Persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 or direct contact with suspected COVID-19 cases, do not attend immunization sessions.

Regarding the suspension of vaccination, in the article &quot;Interval of vaccination due to Covid-19 epidemic, the risk of other diseases attacking children&quot; (April 24) Dan Tri newspaper cited the analysis of Dr. Truong Huu Khanh, Head of Infection - Neurology Department, Children Hospital 1, HCMC. Accordingly, the delay in shots puts children at risk of infection, enabling the epidemic diseases, especially measles, to return, threatening the outcomes of the expanded immunization program.

Yunshan




Tag:


immunization

COVID-19

Disease




