URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/xet-nghiem-phat-hien-som-ung-thu-giam-gan-70-tai-tam-dich-covid-19-20200428225000467.htm
ID : DANT2020042900005

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 07:41
Title : Testing for early detection of cancer decreased by nearly 70% at the center of Covid-19 epidemic
Ariticle : 

A report by Komodo Health, an organization with a huge verified medical data platform, shows that millions of Americans are suspending medical tests used to diagnose or monitor the disease. physical.


&quot;We have seen the terrible consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic in the diagnosis and prevention of diseases, especially chronic diseases,&quot; said Dr. Arif Nathoo, Komodo Health CEO.

It is known that the organization has collected data from medical bills of 320 million patients across the United States, during March 19-20 April and compared with the previous 11 weeks ( when Covid-19 was not yet flaring up), as compared to the same time period in previous years.

The analysis showed that Covid-19 led to a 68% decrease in cervical cancer screening tests; Cholesterol test decreased by 67% and blood glucose test decreased by 65%. The main reason is that people are afraid to go to health facilities because of the risk of Covid-19 infection.


The experts also found that the areas most affected by Covid-19 in the United States, will also have the largest decrease in the number of medical tests performed, namely:

A1c blood test - The type of test that provides information on the average glycemic index, which is also the main test for managing diabetes - has dropped by over 90% in Manhattan, New York City (New York City is the center). Covid-19 translation in the US).

Massachusetts, meanwhile, recorded a record 80 percent drop in cholesterol tests. In California, the number of cervical cancer tests decreases by 76%. Dr David Tom Cooke, UC-Davis Medical Center, California, said: “My patients are still receiving normal treatment. However, the number of cancer diagnoses performed is greatly reduced. This makes me very worried that many cancer patients can only know their status, when the disease has advanced to the late stage. ” According to this expert, UC-Davis has also stopped screening for many types of cancer such as breast and lung cancer.


According to experts, cancer patients belong to a high-risk group in the face of Covid-19. The destruction of the underlying disease in combination with treatments can weaken the immune system, making cancer patients more likely to die or have more serious complications if SARS-CoV virus is present. 2 attack.

In light of this fact, authorities in many US states have asked for the suspension of treatments, considered non-vital, for cancer patients, to minimize the risk of Covid-19. may be encountered if the patient goes to the hospital for treatment. For cases that continue to be treated, many changes will be made to reduce the risk of infection such as: increasing the treatment dose to reduce the number of treatments; relocating the treatment area for cancer patients away from the normal patient area, Covid-19 patient; strengthen counseling, monitoring patient progress through the phone.

Minh Nhat

According to Foxnews

