URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/chuyen-chua-ke-ve-hang-ngan-blouse-trang-chi-vien-cho-diem-nong-new-york-20200501154516151.htm
ID : DANT2020050200004

Date : Saturday 02/05/2020 - 06:55
Title : The untold story of thousands of &quot;white blouse&quot; support for New York hot spots
Ariticle : 

Although the number of deaths in the world&#39;s largest outbreak - the United States has shown signs of declining in recent weeks, the reality is that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is still raging very strongly in this country. The number of hospitalizations for Covid-19 every day in New York City hospitals is still high: about 1,000 patients a day. However, this level has decreased significantly compared to the number of more than 3000 patients in early April.


Every day, when it was getting dark, on Times Square (New York City, USA) appeared hundreds of nurses in blue uniforms, focusing on the buses that would then take them to. hospitals across New York City.

They are part of thousands of nurses from all over the United States who have gathered in New York City - the nation&#39;s Covid-19 epidemic, to &quot;support&quot; hospitals that are overcrowded. . It is estimated that there are about 4,000 such nurses in Manhattan district. The schedule of the reinforcements is almost the same: During the day, they either rest in a hotel room or take advantage of some essential supplies, when the night comes they officially enter the fight. in overcrowded hospitals.

&quot;They kept dying and dying despite all our efforts.&quot;

&quot;I have never seen patients this sick before,&quot; said Tamara Williams, a 40-year-old nurse from Dallas. &quot;And they die and die despite all our efforts.&quot;

According to the nurse, when she saw the sight of New York hospitals being in very dangerous situation, she felt she could not sit still. So, ignoring the advice of family members, Williams packed luggage to leave for New York, leaving her husband and child just 8 months old.



Tamara Williams, 40-year-old nurse from Dallas



&quot;Front&quot; that nurse Williams fought when coming to New York City is Bellevue Hospital, Manhattan. During the first week of the war, this nurse kept asking questions about her decision. The place where Williams directly works is the intensive care unit, which treats severe and critical patients. The chaos of overcrowding, the inability to watch serious patients die, and the anxiety of many colleagues starting to show symptoms of Covid-19 made Williams even more worried about the possibility of his infection. sick. More than ever, she felt nostalgic for her husband and her children.


During a recent shift, Williams saw scenes of nurses at Corridors Hospital sobbing, when a colleague died of Covid-19. “I saw them burst into tears because of the death of a person who stood by them for a long time. This moment makes me think more about myself, ”said Williams.

Obsessive calls from relatives close to death

Maggie Scott, a 24-year-old nurse from San Diego, also joined the New York City support force, said she had had to make a &quot;goodbye&quot; video call to the upcoming Covid-19 patient. life and other family members, not even once, but three times in one shift.


Another nurse, Molly Teeter from Magnet Cove, shared that she could not forget the haunting scene, when many patients who died from Covid-19 still sometimes left many hours in the hospital room, before they were taken to refrigerated trucks, the vehicle was requisitioned as a battle morgue.

&quot;If you&#39;re not afraid to be here now, you&#39;re not human!&quot;

Also a &quot;warrior&quot; to say goodbye to his family to support New York City, nurse Shameka Dugger from Fort Valley said: &quot;I am the mother of 6 children, when I told the kids are going away for a long time, they told me &quot;mom will become a superhero&quot;, their words have become a great encouragement for me in this difficult period &quot; .


Previously, nurse Dugger had dreamed of coming to New York to visit famous places such as Central Park or Empire State Building. Because Covid-19 her dream had come true but because of this pandemic, Dugger&#39;s dream destination was no longer as magnificent as she had imagined. What is associated with New York in the mind of Dugger now is no longer the magnificent works, but the tight shift as strings.

“Before I entered the shift, I used to listen to hymns and pray for people in New York City. If you don&#39;t feel scared here, you&#39;re not a human being! ” - The nurse emphasized.

Minh Nhat

According to NYT, WP




Tag:


COVID-19

America

nurse

Wuhan Corona virus




