URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/loai-ung-thu-nao-khien-benh-nhan-de-tu-vong-nhat-khi-mac-covid-19-20200428220406733.htm
ID : DANT2020042900015

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 15:04
Title : What type of cancer makes patients most susceptible to death from Covid-19?
Ariticle : 

In addition, cancer patients are at high risk for serious complications and need to be treated in an intensive care unit. Remarkably, the research also shows that the type of cancer or cancer treatment stage that the patient is going through has a major decision on the above risks.

The study was based on data collected from 14 hospitals in Hubei Province (China&#39;s Covid-19 epidemic) with a total of 105 cancer patients and 536 non-cancer patients of the same age and age. both have Covid-19.

The results of the analysis indicated that the prognosis of cancer patients was not significantly different from that of non-cancer patients in Covid-19 infection. In contrast, people with leukemia, lymphoma, multiple bone marrow tumors (all types of blood cancer) are in the group most at risk of serious disease. In addition, patients with lung and gastrointestinal cancers also belong to the group with high risk of bad prognosis.


According to the authors&#39; analysis, the types of blood cancer directly affect the body&#39;s immune system, which helps us to defend against SARS-CoV-2 virus, so it will lead to high health risks if have Covid-19.

In addition, patients who undergo cancer treatment surgery will often have a worse prognosis than radiation therapy, if unfortunately with Covid-19.

&quot;This finding confirms that cancer patients are much more vulnerable to Covid-19 than the other group,&quot; the authors conclude.

Leonard Lichtenfeld, an official of the American Cancer Society, said the authors&#39; research was important and once again proved that cancer patients are more vulnerable to viruses than the others. .


He also emphasized that, because of the high risk before Covid-19 that the American Cancer Society is trying to limit the impact of the disease on this group of people, the strongest measure is the request to selectively stop therapies for cancer patients, as well as stopping clinical trials with new patients.

However, many experts also expressed concern with the solution to stop treatment for cancer patients, because they said that for patients in the early stages this solution will not have a significant effect. However, in patients with advanced disease or advanced, hard-to-treat cancers, stopping treatment for more than one month can lead to a significant change in prognosis.

According to the American Cancer Society, in 2020, there are expected to be about 1.8 million new cancer cases in this country. At the same time, this evil disease will also take the lives of more than 606,000 people. However, under the impact of Covid-19, the number of diagnosed cases can be reduced significantly, because people are afraid of going to health facilities to screen for cancer. Conversely, the number of deaths may increase in the context of untreated patients.

Minh Nhat

According to WP

