URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/sang-304-khong-co-ca-mac-covid-19-thanh-tra-cac-goi-thau-mua-sam-20200429215256474.htm
ID : DANT2020043000001

Date : Thursday 04/30/2020 - 06:22
Title : Morning of 30/4: No case of Covid-19, inspected procurement packages
Ariticle : 

From 18h on 29/4 to 6h on 30/4, Vietnam recorded 0 new cases. The number of cases of Covid-19 in our country is still 270.

Total close contacts and entry from epidemic areas are under health monitoring (isolation): 34,836, of which:

- Centralized isolation at the hospital: 316.

- Isolation concentrated in other establishments: 6,700.

- Isolation at home and place of residence: 27,820.

Regarding the treatment situation, according to the report of the Treatment Sub-Committee of the National Steering Committee for Disease Prevention and Control Covid-19:

- Number of cases with one negative test result with SARS-CoV-2: 10 cases.

- Number of cases with negative test results 2 or more times with SARS-CoV-2: 4 cases.


Deputy Minister of Health Nguyen Truong Son said that the Ministry of Health&#39;s views suggest strict handling for those who raise prices to buy anti-epidemic equipment Covid-19. Since March 13, the Ministry of Health has sent a written request to the Ministry of Public Security for investigating the increase in the purchase price of Realtime PCR test system in some provinces and cities.

Deputy Minister Son said that Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc provided guidance on handling violations in using the Covid-19 epidemic prevention fund. In particular, the Prime Minister instructed the Ministry of Health, People&#39;s Committees of provinces and cities directly under the Central Government to urgently review, adjust, re-evaluate and inspect the implementation of bidding packages for the procurement of medical equipment and supplies. expenditure on consumption, medicines ... in service of the prevention of the epidemic of Covid-19.

Special attention should be paid to procurement packages of biochemical testing equipment, ventilators, medical masks, and consumables chemicals. If there is any sign of law violation, the dossier and document shall be transferred to the investigating agency for clarification and serious handling according to the provisions of law.

“Up to now, units of the Ministry of Health have not made any purchases related to the Real Time PCR test system during the Covid-19 season. Some localities have sent reports to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health is summarizing the report to the Prime Minister, ”Deputy Minister Son said.

According to Deputy Minister Son, the Ministry has been informed about a number of medical equipment systems, especially the Real time PCR test system in recent years, which has abnormal prices in some localities. In a dispatch to the Ministry of Public Security, on March 13, the Ministry of Health asked the Ministry of Public Security to clarify.


The Ministry of Health continues to closely monitor the disease situation throughout the country, especially the outbreak in Ha Loi Village, Me Linh Commune (Me Linh District, Hanoi City), Samsung Factory (Bac Ninh Province), Bach Mai Hospital; Pho La commune, Dong Van district (Ha Giang). At the same time, strengthening inspection activities, directing the implementation of prevention and control of Covid-19 disease in localities.

In Vietnam, a case that has been cured but tested positive again is being monitored at health facilities. This shows the complexity of the transmission mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 virus, the need to evaluate and properly implement prevention and control measures to control the risk of Covid-19 infection, especially for schools. In case of infection in the community, there are no symptoms or mild symptoms.

The Ministry of Health has assigned the Central Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, the Pasteur Institute in Ho Chi Minh City to conduct virus culture with positive cases to give a scientific answer.


Nam Phuong




Tag:


Coronavirus

Wuhan pneumonia virus

re-positive




