URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/cac-phuong-phap-xet-nghiem-covid-19-hien-nay-khac-nhau-nhu-the-nao-20200429145419842.htm
ID : DANT2020043000008

Date : Thursday, April 30, 2020 - 11:24
Title : How is the current Covid-19 test methods different?
Ariticle : 


Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is also known as polymerase chain reaction. Every virus has a specific genetic code. To test for SARS-CoV-2 virus by PCR, medical staff will first take oropharyngeal fluid from the suspect / infected person; The smear sample after being processed to extract genetic material in it will be put into PCR machine to amplify the number of specific gene segments of SARS-CoV-2 virus (if any), through the cycle. repeatable heat process; Based on the final product, we can conclude about the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the sample.

Advantages

The PCR test is currently the most commonly used and the most accurate method, to determine whether a person is infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

Defect

PCR testing requires special equipment and ancillary materials, and of course it is very expensive. In addition, the technicians who perform the tests also require professional training. Therefore, PCR testing is difficult to deploy on a large scale, down to the lower level facilities that do not meet the human and material requirements.


In fact, the antibody test does not directly detect SARS-CoV-2 virus, but identifies the presence of a glycoprotein, produced by the immune system to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus, called antibody. be. It is important to know that in our blood vessels there is a treasure trove of antibodies to fight off every type of bacteria, virus or fungal infection we get in our lives.

An antibody test is done on a blood sample, taken through a finger prick or intravenously. Most antibody tests require professionally trained technicians to perform them. The ultimate goal is to find specific antibodies that the body has secreted to combat the pathogen that caused Covid-19.

Advantages

Antibody tests have a faster time to perform, are cheaper than PCR tests that are easy to deploy on a large scale. The antibody test method is often used to quickly identify suspected objects and quickly locate outbreaks.

Defect

Up to now, we have known 7 viruses of the corona virus that cause disease in humans (including SARS-CoV-2 virus). Antibodies that the body produces to combat these corona viruses are almost identical, so the antibody test method has difficulty distinguishing people with Covid-19 from other diseases caused by their close relatives. SARS-CoV-2 caused, typically like a cold.


Antigen is a term used to refer to foreign entities that enter muscles like viruses or bacteria. The antigen test kit works by looking for the presence of specific parts of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, such as a protein located on their thorns. If this specific protein is present in an amount greater than or equal to the tester&#39;s detection threshold, the result will return positive.

Advantages

Antigen tests can be done through a pharyngeal fluid, which takes very quickly and does not require very expensive equipment. This allows us to mass produce test kits for the needs of the health industry, or even home users themselves.

According to the World Health Organization (WHO), antigen testing will be an initial deployment plan when detecting an outbreak, to quickly identify suspect objects and avoid wasting resources when implementing the method. Large-scale PCR tests, which are time-consuming and costly.

Defect

So far we do not yet have a reliable and fast test product for SARS-CoV-2 virus. Looking back, the WHO also has statistics that the antigen test kits for corona virus are not very accurate, usually only in the range of 34% -80%.

If this figure is also consistent with the antigen test kit for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, we may miss up to 50% or more than Covid-19 patients.

According to Gigi Gronvall, Johns Hopkins University, designing an antigen test kit for SARS-CoV-2 is a big challenge because sometimes viruses have a different morphology than the standard or proteins on the surface of They are modified, these are the reasons that affect the accuracy of the testing process.


Minh Nhat

According to AH, Britanica




Tag:


test

COVID-19




