URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/sau-48-ngay-dieu-tri-phi-cong-nguoi-anh-mac-covid-19-van-nguy-kich-20200505193442356.htm
ID : DANT2020050500014

Date : Tuesday 05/05/2020 - 20:29
Title : After 48 days of treatment, the British pilot with Covid-19 remained in critical condition
Ariticle : 

According to the Treatment Subcommittee, the National Steering Committee for the Prevention of Epidemic Covid-19 said, until now our country has only 2 patients with severe Covid-19, of which the British pilot is in critical condition, the patient is still serious. He had his breathing machine removed again.

Patient 91, a British pilot is being treated at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Ho Chi Minh City. At present, the patient&#39;s condition is still very critical, still / sedative, no fever, right pneumothorax, bleeding in the pleural drainage 300ml, no other bleeding was recorded.


Echocardiography showed that the heart contracts synchronously, the right lung has pneumothorax, there is very small amount of inhalation effusion, the lungs shrink about 4 intercostal spaces. The most recent SARS-CoV-2 test is negative. Patients on antibiotic treatment Ceftazidim, Levoflox.

Patient 91 had 48 days of treatment. Currently the patient is receiving respiratory support / tracheotomy, ECMO intervention (day 30). Patients still dialysis, control coagulation disorders, right pneumothorax.

The remaining severe case is patient No. 19, the aunt of patient No. 17, who is being treated at the Central Hospital for Tropical Diseases 2.

The patient recovered well, changed from a critical condition to a serious condition, and oxygen did not invade. The patient had ventilated from 4/5, respond well, ventilation 2 sides clear, no ran. Heart rate has less systolic, mainly supraventricular, sparse frequency. Patient is alert, has good communication, improved muscle, no clinical edema, urinary catheterization, gastric sonde, no fever.

Thus, up to this point, this is the Covid-19 patient with the maximum number of treatment days of 58 days. This patient also interfered with ECMO.

Patient 161, one of 5 critically ill patients who had to undergo mechanical ventilation, received intensive care for intensive care at Central Hospital for Tropical Diseases 2 was discharged. The patient ended the Covid-19 treatment phase and switched to the stroke recovery phase.

The patient had ventilated from 4/5, SARS-CoV-2 test results by the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology performed negative 4 times in a row. Currently the patient has recovered, awake, exposed, breathing room gas, paralysis of 1/2 left, muscles 4/5, signs of stable survival. The patient is able to eat and drink, and is still being rehabilitated.

On 5/5, Vietnam did not register new cases of Covid-19. Thus, up to date, there are 271 cases of Covid-19 in our country, of which 232 cases have been cured / discharged from hospitals. There are still 39 cases being treated at health facilities at central and provincial levels.

Out of 39 cases being treated in hospitals, the first negative transfer test with SARS-CoV-2 virus was 12; have had 9 cases negative 2 or more times with SARS-CoV-2 virus.

People should continue to follow disease prevention measures including: masks; do not gather in large numbers; Do not go out when not needed especially the elderly, people with background disease; avoid close contact; wash your hands often with soap or an antiseptic solution; health declaration…


Nam Phuong




Tag:


Coronavirus

Wuhan pneumonia virus

re-positive




