URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/benh-nhan-ung-thu-duoc-tang-khau-trang-y-te-chong-dich-covid-19-20200505200951138.htm
ID : DANT2020050600002

Date : Tuesday 05/05/2020 - 21:33
Title : Cancer patients were given a Covid-19 anti-epidemic medical mask
Ariticle : 

Assoc.Prof.Dr. Nguyen Thi Xuyen, President of Vietnam General Association of Medicine, Chairman of Cancer Support Fund Bright Tomorrow, the representative of the Foundation awarded K Hospital to present gifts to cancer patients. .

In the coming week, the Fund will also offer similar gifts to patients at Bach Mai Hospital, Central Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion.



The Bright Tomorrow Foundation presents gifts to the Central K Hospital.



Previously, the Fund also gave gifts and cash to 20,000 cancer patients, including 40,000 medical masks worth over VND 200 million to 4 hospitals: Bach Mai, Hanoi Oncology, Tropical Diseases Central. and K. Hospital

Professor Xuyen said that it is very important to equip masks for medical staff and patients, especially cancer patients, who have poor resistance and difficult economy.

Assoc. Prof. Dr. Le Van Quang, Deputy Director of K Hospital also said that during the last time, the Covid-19 epidemic happened unpredictably, the hospitals were strenuously fighting the epidemic. In order to ensure the work of medical examination and treatment and prevention of epidemics, K Hospital has implemented many solutions such as 1-way flow into / out of the hospital. All people who come in and out of the hospital must carry out the medical declaration, body temperature measurement, screening 2 times (at the hospital entrance and at the department).

In the event that the patient or family member of the patient has an epidemiological factor, the Hospital will provide medical examinations in an isolated area for suspected Covid-19 patients.

“Luckily at the hospital, there was no case of Covid-19. Earlier, there were two suspected cases, the hospital conducted blockade of two related departments. However, when the result of a negative test with SARS-CoV-2 was removed, the blockade was removed. At that time, we were relieved, &quot;said Associate Professor Quang.

In order to carry out medical examination and treatment in the current conditions, the hospital has implemented a timed examination for re-examination patients, set an hourly treatment schedule, shortened the administrative process so that patients can receive chemotherapy faster. , changing the treatment regimen to oral medication to reduce hospitalization of the patient does not affect the patient&#39;s treatment.

At the same time, expanding the clinic, conducting the examination earlier, adding more seats in other areas to reduce the crowded population. Frequent hospital staff reminds to ensure distance.

However, Associate Professor Quang also acknowledged that in the past two days the number of patients visiting 3 hospitals has increased to more than 2,000 people, a little higher than the time before the outbreak. During the interval only about 400 intervals.

“After a long time of separation, holidays, people come to see many, so it is hard to avoid having this place, there are quite a lot of patients waiting there. The hospital expects people to sympathize, share and coordinate with the hospital to ensure the work of medical examination and treatment, ”said Prof. Quang.

Cancer patients are three times more likely to get Covid-19 than normal people, especially when they have a 5-times higher risk of death than other patients. Therefore, patients need to strictly adhere to recommendations of the Ministry of Health in disease prevention.


To support the anti-epidemic doctors Covid-19, an organization has also awarded members of the Vietnam Physiotherapy Association 5,000 medical masks.

With close, long-term close contact with patients from the mechanical ventilation period in the HRS room to the day of discharge, even later during patient follow-up, with all forms of disease, Specialists and age groups so health workers are at high risk of infection.

Mr. Tran Van Dan, Chairman of the Association received this gift on behalf of the Association. Immediately after receiving all the masks will be given to members who are directly practicing respiratory physiotherapy for patients hospitalized across the country.

Tu Anh


Nam Phuong

