URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/ca-benh-covid-19-thu-271-tung-duong-tinh-voi-sars-co-v-2-tai-anh-20200504090304689.htm
ID : DANT2020050400008

Date : Monday 04/05/2020 - 09:17
Title : The 271st case of Covid-19 was positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the UK
Ariticle : 

On 4/5, the Centers for Disease Control, Ho Chi Minh City published detailed information related to the case of Covid-19 (the 271st case in Vietnam in 271) has been discovered in the area. Accordingly, male patients of British nationality belong to a group of 13 experts who entered Vietnam on April 28 to carry out economic projects.

A team of experts on the AXY 2504 flight, chartered separately from the UK to Vietnam. The flight crew after landing at Tan Son Nhat, Ho Chi Minh City flew back to the country shortly thereafter, did not carry out entry procedures to Vietnam.



The patient was found positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the UK before entering Vietnam (photo: Nguyen Quang)



Patients in the same expert group are carried out isolation according to regulations and take test samples. Results of the first test on April 28 determined that all the above experts were negative for SARS-CoV-2. On 2/5/2020, these people were sampled for a second time. The patient was positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus, and the remaining 12 were negative.

Through a history survey, while still staying in the UK, on April 7, the male patient tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. However, untreated patients are isolated at home only. As of April 21, the patient had a negative test result, and was issued a certificate to test negative for SARS-CoV-2 virus and depart for Vietnam on April 28.

The patient was referred to the Cu Chi field hospital for treatment, the results of current examination and medical examination recorded, the patient has no fever, no cough, no sore throat or other symptoms. Patients will be followed up and treated like other cases of Covid-19 infection.

The Ho Chi Minh City Center for Disease Control determined that, from the time of entry, patients were isolated and properly controlled. The patient has not been in contact with other people so there is no infectious factor in the community.



Currently, Ho Chi Minh City is treating 8 new and re-infected cases of Covid-19 (photo Nguyen Quang).



From the above case, the Department of Health assessed the risk of immigration cases in this period higher than the previous period, so Ho Chi Minh City decided the cases of concentrated isolation after entry would be sampled. test 4 times on the first day, the 5th day, the 10th day and the last day before completing 14 days of isolation. Previously, sampling was only done on the first and last day of the quarantine period according to National regulations.

Until the morning of 4/5, in Ho Chi Minh City are treating 8 cases of Covid-19 infection, of which 1 case has not been cured, 6 cases have been cured but re-infected and expert case. Petroleum just discovered above. Currently the health status of re-infections is very positive.

Particularly the case that has not been cured is the British pilot (91st case) at the Tropical Hospital, until 4/5
, stable patient condition, no fever, stable pulse and blood pressure, pneumothorax must be drained. Patients are continuing ECMO, mechanical ventilation, and prognosis is still severe.

The epidemic is forecasted to be very complicated and unpredictable in the future. Department of Health, Ho Chi Minh City recommends the community to continue strengthening measures to prevent epidemics, restricting leaving the home if there is no really necessary; often wear a mask when leaving home, keep a safe distance when in contact with other people; wash hands often with soap or disinfectant solution after contact with susceptible surfaces; strictly comply with the prevention guidelines of the Ministry of Health; Contact your nearest local health facility when infected.

Yunshan




Tag:


translation of covid-19

test

oil and gas experts

Tropic




