URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/phi-cong-nguoi-anh-bi-xep-phoi-them-1-ca-tai-duong-tinh-covid-19-20200430152036490.htm
ID : DANT2020043000010

Date : Thursday 30/04/2020 - 15:54
Title : British pilot collapsed lung, an additional positive case Covid-19
Ariticle : 

On April 30, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Ho Chi Minh City, said that until now the city has passed 23 days without new cases of Covid-19 infection in the community. However, through surveillance with people with Covid-19 who have been declared recovered from the disease, this unit has just detected one more case of re-infection at the second test time. calculated after the treatment is a 21-year-old male student from Da Lat returning from France (patient No. 92 infected with Covid-19 in Vietnam).


Ho Chi Minh City has detected 4 cases positive for Covid-19 after being declared cured


Immediately after the positive specimen was re-determined, the patient was transferred to Cu Chi District Field Hospital, treated according to epidemic prevention regulations. So far in Ho Chi Minh City has detected 4 cases of re-positive. The patients are being monitored, continuous treatment, stable health situation.

Explaining why the patient was positive for SARS-CoV-2, experts said that the patient had recovered from the disease, no longer living virus in the body but the virus&#39;s body still carries the genetic material. The viral RNA was detected through molecular biology assay, which led to a positive sample result.

There is currently no evidence to suggest that those who have recovered from the treatment but are positive for Covid-19 do not infect others. Therefore, all patients after discharge are recommended by the health sector to actively implement isolation measures, health monitoring and retest 2 times within 14 days of being proclaimed cure.


The health sector urges the community to strengthen prevention measures


Up to now, the 91st case of Covid-19 infection in Vietnam is a 43-year-old male pilot of the British national who still poses challenges for doctors during treatment. The patient was repeatedly negative and then re-positive again. Most recently, the test results on March 28 were negative, but on the 29 day the PCR test results confirmed that the patient was positive for SARS-CoV-2.

As of 30/4, the patient&#39;s condition did not get worse, but the prognosis was still severe. Currently the patient does not have a fever, pulse and blood pressure stable but the right lung collapsed behind the bottom, left lung solidified half lower. Patients are being continued to intervene with mechanical ventilation, ECMO, dialysis, antibiotics, antifungal in the hope of gradually helping the lungs recover.

The British male pilot was the first patient discovered in the Covid-19 outbreak at Buddha bar. The patient was hospitalized and confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 since March 18. Up to now, although doctors have continuously treated with the most modern medical techniques, the disease progression has not yet been feasible.


The British pilot was negative many times but later became positive again


The reason why a male pilot who is &quot;healthier&quot; than the one attacked and progressively more dangerous was initially determined to be due to the patient being obese, high risk group if Covid-19 attack. Currently the Medical Council of the Ministry of Health is actively supporting the doctors at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Ho Chi Minh City and Cho Ray Hospital to implement medical solutions for male pilots.

Predicting, in the coming time, the disease will continue to be complicated, the Centers for Disease Control of Ho Chi Minh City warn the community to be absolutely not subjective and to proactively prevent the risk of infection by using regular masks when away from home; keep a safe distance when interacting with others; Do not leave the house when not needed; Do not gather more than 30 people in public places.

Yunshan




Tag:


translation of covid-19

British pilot

reinfection with Covid-19

test




