URL : https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/africa/madagascar-covid-19/855586-coronavirus-a-foreign-nun-tested-positive-a-month-after-arriving-in-madagascar
ID : FLUT2020043000009

Date : 2020-04-29 20:52:47
Title : Coronavirus: a foreign nun tested positive a month after arriving in Madagascar
Ariticle : 
																							Source: 
https://www.linfo.re/ocean-indien/ma...e-a-madagascar

Coronavirus: a foreign nun tested positive a month after arriving in Madagascar
LINFO.RE - created on 04.29.2020 at 4:16 p.m. - The editorial staff
Tested negative upon her arrival in Madagascar, this foreign nun has already been quarantined for a month. His case is quite specific.

This foreign nun landed in Madagascar on March 19, 2020 by an Air France flight. When she arrived on Malagasy soil, she tested negative at Covid-19 while the sister who was traveling with her was positive. While she was to reach the south of the country, she stayed in a fortnight in a hotel in Antananarivo. After that time, she was tested again, which again turned out to be negative. She was therefore able to join her community, but was again quarantined as a precaution.

A specific case

Against all expectations, the nun was tested positive for coronavirus on April 23. Judging by her journey, she would have been contaminated by the nun who was traveling with her. However, his case casts doubt on the actual incubation time of the virus. "We believe that she had already contracted the virus before landing in Madagascar, but that her antibodies have resisted," said Jerry Hatrefindrazana, governor of Anosy, on the story of the newspaper L’Express de Madagascar. According to Professor Hanta-Marie-Danielle Vololontiana, spokesman for Covid-19 operational command, this is a contact case.

Faced with this incident, Professor Hanta-Marie-Danielle Vololontiana calls on the population to exercise the utmost vigilance. Those tested negative and patients cured should be very careful, she warned.
													