URL : https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/-2019-ncov-new-coronavirus/china-2019-ncov/855195-how-china-is-ruthlessly-exploiting-the-coronavirus-pandemic-it-helped-cause
ID : FLUT2020042900017

Date : 2020-04-28 18:29:45
Title : How China is ruthlessly exploiting the coronavirus pandemic it helped cause
Ariticle : 
																							Source: 
https://www.vox.com/2020/4/28/212345...foreign-policy

How China is ruthlessly exploiting the coronavirus pandemic it helped cause
“Everything they’re doing is a full-court press,” one expert told Vox.
By Alex Ward Apr 28, 2020, 2:10pm EDT


The coronavirus pandemic that rages across the globe is a fire 
China helped light
. And now, while Beijing grasps a fire hose with two hands, it’s also planting a boot on the world’s neck.

The 
Chinese government spent weeks denying and downplaying
 the severity of its growing coronavirus outbreak that eventually spread to the rest of the world. That obfuscation 
cost nations crucial time
 in preparing for and potentially curbing the damage of Covid-19. 
Some experts Vox spoke with
 believe President Xi Jinping’s regime should be held accountable for the more than 
3 million infections and 200,000 deaths
 that have taken place worldwide.

But China isn’t letting a good crisis go to waste. Instead of looking to make amends, Beijing is taking advantage of the chaos to pursue its long-term foreign policy goals more aggressively.

“When it sees opportunities, China moves to exploit them,” said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank in Washington, DC. “And we are in a moment where the Chinese definitely see opportunities.”

China has capitalized on the world’s distraction to 
claim sovereignty over disputed islands
 in the South China Sea, intimidate Taiwan, and 
assert more authority over Hong Kong
 in an attempt to quash the pro-democracy movement there.

It’s taken advantage of 
vulnerable countries in Africa
 that are struggling to cope with the coronavirus and its economic impact by offering much-needed debt relief — but only if those countries provide 
lucrative national assets as collateral
...


													