URL : https://health.mil/News/Articles/2020/05/04/Mobility-Airmen-conduct-historic-first-aeromedical-evacuation-mission
ID : GEIS2020050500001

Date : 2020-05-04 12:00:00
Title : Mobility Airmen conduct historic first aeromedical evacuation mission using Transport Isolation System
Ariticle : 
		Recommended Content:	
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, Germany – Air Mobility Command aircrew and medical personnel conducted the first operational use of the Transport Isolation System (TIS) to perform an aeromedical evacuation of three U.S. government contractors who tested positive for Coronavirus, from Afghanistan to Ramstein Air Base, Germany, April 10. Upon arrival at Ramstein, the patients were transferred to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center for medical treatment.
The AE mission, REACH 725, marked the first operational use of the TIS since its development during the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and the first movement of COVID-19 positive patients aboard U.S. Air Force aircraft. The TIS is an infectious disease containment unit designed to minimize risk to aircrew, medical attendants, and the airframe, while allowing medical care to be provided to patients in-flight.
REACH 725 was comprised of a full TIS force package, which includes one C-17 and aircrew carrying two TIS modules and medical support personnel, consisting of AE specialists, Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT) members, infectious diseases doctors and technicians, and TIS operators.
Upon receipt of a warning order from U.S. Transportation Command April 8, the 618th Air Operations Center tasked a TIS-trained AMC aircrew and medical team at Ramstein AB to prepare to execute the mission within 24 hours. Drawn from multiple specialties and units from across the Air Force, these Airmen were pre-staged with a Joint Base Charleston C-17 and TIS at Ramstein’s 86th Airlift Wing in late March in anticipation of Joint Force, Allied and partner requirements in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Since arriving, these Airmen have trained to increase proficiency on the movement of infectious patients via the TIS.
“Our unique capabilities paired with our strategic locations across the globe enable us to rapidly help those in need,” said Air Force Gen. Jeff Harrigian, commander of U.S. Air Forces in Europe-Air Forces Africa and NATO Allied Air Command. “Along with our allies and partners we stand united against a shared threat and stand ready to help when called.”
Hours before the crew stepped to the C-17, Air Force Brig. Gen. Jimmy Canlas, 618th AOC commander, led a teleconference call in which he provided them with clear guidance in line with the recently released AMC COVID-19 Patient Movement Plan.
“Through the meticulous effort of AMC’s planners over the past few weeks, in coordination with U.S. Transportation Command, we’ve produced a detailed plan that guides our crews on how to safely and effectively move ill patients to a location where they can receive greater care, all while providing protection for our aircrew, medical personnel and aircraft,” said Canlas. “Within hours of completing and releasing this plan to the force, the crew of REACH 725 validated the hard work of these planners by safely transporting three COVID-19 patients nearly 4,000 miles from Afghanistan to Landstuhl.”
Developed by AMC planners over the past few weeks, the PMP provides aircrew and support personnel a comprehensive and detailed process by which to transport patients aboard pressurized, military aircraft, including patients afflicted with highly contagious diseases like COVID-19.
“I’m exceptionally proud of our Airmen who executed this historic AE mission,” said Air Force Gen. Maryanne Miller, AMC commander. “REACH 725 is a great demonstration of AMC’s transition to a warfighting component command, with increased flexibility and speed enabling our Mobility Airmen to quickly answer any call for help during this global campaign to defeat COVID-19.  Delivering hope runs deep in the blood of Mobility Airmen, and I’m in awe of what they are doing for those in need.”
Read more about the Transport Isolation System here: 
https://www.amc.af.mil/About-Us/Fact-Sheets/Display/Article/2132917/transport-isolation-system-tis/
.
Disclaimer: 
Re-published content may be edited for length and clarity. 
Read original post
.