URL : https://extranet.who.int/goarn/content/getting-grip-covid-19-pandemic-godata
ID : GOAR2020042900001

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Getting a grip on the COVID-19 Pandemic with Go.Data
Ariticle : 
The COVID-19 epidemic has become a pandemic in a matter of 3 months since the first cases were reported internationally, spreading beyond China to all continents of the world. Each affected country is now dealing with a growing number of cases and deaths and its very unique set of operational circumstances making this pandemic a complex international challenge. 
Despite this heterogeneity of operational realities that characterize this pandemic, a dependence on surveillance of cases and contact tracing has been central to the COVID-19 response strategies globally, to ensure we can find and isolate cases of coronavirus early, and break the chains of transmission. 
Go.Data is an outbreak investigation tool  developed by GOARN partners for data collection during outbreaks and public health emergencies. Used in many previous outbreak response emergencies, this tool includes not only functionality for case investigation, but it also provides features for contact tracing, visualization of chains of transmission, and secure data exchange. Its strength is the fact that it can be easily configured and is designed for any outbreak in any country and used in an on-line and off-line setting. It is designed to allow flexibility in the data collection for outbreak responders.
Due to its recent success in supporting the needs of the recent Ebola outbreak response in West Africa, Go.Data was engaged early in the COVID-19 response by WHO and many GOARN partners. 
As of April 22, the Go.Data team has received  inquiries from 230 institutions 122 countries and territories about the tool and its potential use in the context of COVID-19 response. These requests come from Ministries of Health, Academic institutions, non-governmental organizations, but also individuals. Currently, Go.Data team is supporting 35 separate external installations of the tool. The team is also conducting training sessions aimed at expert users, who are later on able to train other users ensuring further implementation on the country and institutional level.  
 
Visualising cases and their contacts with Go.Data makes it easy to track chains of transmission. 
 

WHO is working with GOARN and other partners on the rollout and implementation of Go.Data at the country level. This includes European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), ECDC field epidemiology fellowship programme (EPIET), EPIET Alumni Network (EAN), Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC), Sante Publique France (SpF), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Field Epidemiology Training programmes. Go.Data project continues to run in its collaborative spirit and engages additional partners for implementation and training activities.
For more information visit the 
Go.Data website. 
 
