URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006888868
ID : GPHN2020050200038

Date : 2020-05-02 16:30:00
Title : COVID-19: GLOBAL IMPACT
Ariticle : 
Canberra coronavirus freeThe Australian Capital Territory has become the first of the country’s eight states and mainland territories to declare itself free of all known cases of the coronavirus. There have been 106 confirmed cases in Canberra and three patients have died. The capital territory has a population of only 420,000, the second-smallest of Australia’s states and territories, and its infection rate per population ranks in the middle of the field. Everyone with cold or flu symptoms has been offered free testing in Canberra for the past week and the government said that offer will be extended for another week. One in 49 of the territory’s people had been tested by Thursday. Australia has recorded 6763 cases, including 93 deaths.
 Cases spike after lockdown lifted Confirmed coronavirus cases in Ghana have surged above 2000, increasing 24 per cent in a matter of days, health officials announced yesterday, reflecting testing during a recent three-week lockdown in the West African country’s two largest cities. And Indian Ocean island nation of Comoros announced its first confirmed case, making it the 53rd of Africa’s 54 countries to report Covid-19. Only the small southern African kingdom of Lesotho has not reported a case of the disease. African nations have now reported more than 37,400 cases, including 1598 deaths, the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said yesterday.
South Korea: No new local cases South Korea recorded no new locally transmitted cases of coronavirus infections for the first time since February yesterday, in a milestone vindicating its much praised “trace, test, treat” pandemic response strategy. The timing of the announcement — two weeks after the logistical feat of holding the country’s general elections during a pandemic — offered further evidence that South Korea has become a world leader in how to successfully defeat Covid-19. However, South Korea’s Centres for Disease Control did record four new Covid-19 infections in people arriving from abroad, highlighting the long-term challenge of stamping out the spread of the virus when international borders start to open up.
Moscow shootout over ventilators Moscow police engaged in a shoot-out with suspected gangsters over ventilators — which are becoming hot commodities on the black market — as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Russia surpassed 100,000. Police and intelligence agents in a recent raid outside Moscow exchanged gunfire with men suspected of trafficking in the vital equipment, the Russian interior ministry said in a statement without specifying the date of the raid. Seven were detained in a sting operation after they tried to sell 287 ventilators worth about 200 million roubles ($4.4m) to undercover agents.
Russian PM tests positive Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said he has tested positive for the new coronavirus, becoming the highest-ranking Russian official known to have gotten infected. Mishustin told President Vladimir Putin during a video call that he would self-isolate but planned to stay in touch on key policy issues.