URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006911600
ID : GPHN2020050600025

Date : 2020-05-05 16:03:00
Title : 'Painful to see': Rise in Russian medics falling prey to COVID-19 as death toll questioned
Ariticle : 
Via The Guardian: 'Painful to see': rise in Russian medics falling prey to Covid-19 as death toll questioned. Excerpt:
For weeks, paramedic Dmitry Seryogin had warned about the lack of coronavirus testing and inadequate protective gear that he and his colleagues were given in the city of Oryol, about a four-hour drive south of Moscow. If a patient did not explicitly warn they had coronavirus, he said, teams handled likely infections in simple masks and gloves.
Then, the inevitable happened. Two of his colleagues fell ill with coronavirus, then five more, and now, Seryogin says, more than a dozen have contracted the virus. The regional governor has confirmed an outbreak at a medical station, saying staff had been quarantined and he had “set the goal of providing everyone with PPE. No matter where they are going, what kind of call”.
Seryogin, who continues to work, has few illusions of safety. “I know what kind of job I have. The question is not whether I’m afraid of falling ill, just when it’s going to happen,” he said.
Infections are growing rapidly in Russia, with the country posting more than 10,000 new cases of coronavirus for the past three days, giving it the highest rate of new infections in Europe.
Hotspots with hundreds of infected people have been discovered at far-flung oil and gas fields and regional hospitals.
 Moscow’s mayor has warned that as many as 2% of the capital’s residents may be infected, an estimated 250,000 people, which is roughly four times the official tally. Officially, 1,451 people have died of coronavirus in Russia, far fewer than in countries with similar confirmed cases, but the fatality rate is rising.
“The empty beds in the ICU don’t mean there are fewer people critically ill, these are lives that have been lost,” Maryana Lysenko, the head doctor for Moscow’s 52nd Hospital, said in a video address calling on Russians not to go out during this week’s May holidays.
Russian medical staff have been hit especially hard. 
One nurse in St Petersburg called it the “longest two months of my life”. She had moved out of her house, where she lives with her husband and son, and was staying with a colleague because she feared she could not avoid becoming infected at work and passing it on to her family. For a period last month, she and colleagues had been asked to source masks from home. “It’s painful for me to see doctors ready to do anything but without the support they need,” she said.
Hundreds of Russian healthcare workers have been quarantined alongside their patients, and St Petersburg authorities this week uncovered 111 infections among ambulance workers at a single hospital. In Moscow; medical school students have been mobilised, some telling the Moscow Times they had been coerced to fight the disease, in part to replace trained medical staff who have fallen ill.
Staff members at several high-profile hospitals have resigned in protest at poor working conditions. Paramedics and hospital staff in four cities contacted by the Guardian complained about a shortage of masks or having to reuse PPE.
“We’re seeing mass infections among medical workers,” said Andrei Konoval, the co-chairman of the independent medical workers’ union Deystviye, of which Seryogin is also a member. “From everything we have seen, hospitals seem to be one of the key vectors for the spread of the disease.”