URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006903906
ID : GPHN2020050400227

Date : 2020-05-04 12:32:00
Title : Pet cat becomes first feline in France to be infected with coronavirus
Ariticle : 
A pet cat has become the first feline in France to be infected with coronavirus.
As a result, vets are now recommending that people limit contact with their pets.
The case was confirmed by the Alfort National Veterinary School's virology research unit, in the the Val-de-Marne department just outside Paris on Saturday.
They conducted tests on 'about 10' felines who had been in contact with owners suspected of having contracted COVID-19. The national health agency ANSES also worked on the case.
It is believed that the cat caught the virus from its owners who have both tested positive for coronavirus.
France now joins the USA, China and Belgium on the list of countries with confirmed cases of cats being infected with the virus but scientists maintain that felines cannot pass the disease on to humans.
The first cat in the world confirmed to have the disease was a cat in Belgium in late March. Then shortly after a pet cat in Hong Kong tested positive.
Two pet cats then tested positive for coronavirus in New York state in mid-April, the first pets in the US to contract the infection.
In France a DNA test was done on each cat and the World Organisation for Animal Health confirmed the results for the Pasteur Institute in Paris.
The cat originally tested negative for COVID-19 on a rectal swab but a nasal swab and DNA test revealed it was infected with the disease.
The Alfort vet school stated that it also had 'clinical signs' including problems breathing and 'digestive issues.'
The vet school recommends that owners limit contact with their pets and wear protective gear such as a mask when near them. They should also wash their hands before and after touching the animal.
The school said in its statement that 'transmission from man to cat is rare but distancing is recommended'.
Sophie Le Poder, who is a professor of virology at the facility and who co-authored the study, said: 'We were quite selective in our research and tested about ten well-targeted animals.'
She added that they were continuing their study of pets that might have been infected with the virus.