URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006911178
ID : GPHN2020050600005

Date : 2020-05-05 14:43:00
Title : Accidental poisonings from cleaning supplies on the rise during COVID-19 outbreak
Ariticle : 
Health Canada says there has been a clear jump in the number of accidental poisonings from household cleaners since the novel coronavirus pandemic began.
According to the agency, February and March combined had a 58 per cent increase in the number of reported exposures to cleaning products and disinfectants compared to the same months in 2019.
These include poisonings by exposure to bleaches, disinfectants, hand sanitizers, chlorine and chloramine gases. The most common reports involve bleach, which made up 38 per cent of calls to poison centres in March.
READ MORE: Poison control calls spike after Trump talks of disinfectant to fight coronavirus
While it’s difficult to prove a direct link, Health Canada believes the spike is due to increased exposure to these products in the home because people are stockpiling items during the pandemic and cleaning more due to fear of spreading COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus.
The agency says that people spending more time at home due to the pandemic is also a considerable factor.
There has been a similar spike in accidental poisonings seen in the U.S., according to a recent report published by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
1:07
Accidental poisonings from cleaning supplies, disinfectants rising during pandemic
Researchers at the CDC compared the number of calls about poisonings caused by disinfectants (like hand sanitizer) and cleaning supplies (like bleach) from January to March in 2018, 2019 and 2020.
In 2020, U.S. poison control centres received 20.4 per cent more calls compared to 2019 and 16.4 per cent more calls compared to 2018.
The majority of calls in 2020 were about poisonings in children five years old and younger — roughly 35 per cent involved cleaners and nearly 47 per cent were about disinfectants.
“The timing of these reported exposures corresponded to increased media coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, reports of consumer shortages of cleaning and disinfection products and the beginning of some local and state stay-at-home orders,” the authors wrote.
[ Sign up for our Health IQ newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]
For Dr. Dina Kulik, founder and medical director at Kidcrew Medical in Toronto, accidental poisoning is a major cause for concern — especially when children are around.
“People are using more alcohol, more peroxide, more bleach products and tons of other commercially available products” in an attempt to slow the spread of COVID-19, Kulik previously told Global News.
Now more than ever, these products need to be used and stored carefully and out of reach.
B.C. health officials investigating excess deaths during pandemic
“People are leaving the products out in their kitchens or their bathrooms because they’re using it so much, but this leaves others at risk,” she said.
The toxic chemicals that make up many disinfectants and cleaners can have severe adverse effects if they’re used improperly. In some situations, they can even cause death.
READ MORE: People are poisoning themselves with cleaning supplies as coronavirus spreads — study
“Using hand sanitizer is one thing; ingesting it is another,” Kulik said. “Using bleach on surfaces is one thing; touching it on your skin and breathing it in is another.”
Below, Kulik offers some tips for keeping you and your family safe.
Don’t DIY
“I’ve seen a lot of people mixing things, following … instructional videos,” Kulik said. “That could be very dangerous.”
Unless you have a scientific background, Kulik fears people won’t know the chemical reactions they’re creating — or the possible harmful impacts of those chemicals if the product is inhaled, ingested or touches the skin.
Label everything
It’s common for people to dilute a chemical like bleach with water, mixing the solution in a new, unlabelled spray bottle.
Also, include a label so that even adults don’t get confused.
Poisoning symptoms
There are some symptoms that can indicate poisoning that parents should watch for.
Red, watery, irritated eyes, mouth pain, drooling, choking, gagging, difficulty breathing, vomiting and stomach pain can all indicate an accidental poisoning.
If symptoms are present, Kulik says you should first call 911 and then poison control.
Teaching moment
The novel coronavirus outbreak presents a good opportunity to teach your children about viruses, cleaning products and safety.
“Tell them we’re cleaning our surfaces so we don’t pass the bug on and get other people sick.”
Questions about COVID-19? Here are some things you need to know:
Health officials caution against all international travel. Returning travellers are legally obligated to self-isolate for 14 days, beginning March 26, in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others. Some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self-isolate.
Symptoms can include fever, cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu. Some people can develop a more severe illness. People most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease. If you develop symptoms, contact public health authorities.
To prevent the virus from spreading, experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve. They also recommend minimizing contact with others, staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out.
For full COVID-19 coverage from Global News, click here.
Meghan.Collie@globalnews.ca