URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006898173
ID : GPHN2020050400021

Date : 2020-05-02 20:30:00
Title : Coronavirus: The unusual symptoms linked to Covid-19 and what we know so far - Stuff.co.nz
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus: The unusual symptoms linked to Covid-19 and what we know so far
Georgia Forrester08:30, May 03 2020
Niaid-rml via/AP
Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. Also known as 2019-nCoV, the virus causes COVID-19. 
As scientists continue to study and learn more about Covid-19 , some unusual symptoms are being linked the virus.
A cough, sore throat, fever and shortness of breath are key symptoms of the illness which have been well documented by doctors around the globe.
But "Covid toes", blood clots, unusual skin rashes and the loss of taste and smell are some of the slightly rarer symptoms to be reported by people overseas who have tested positive for Covid-19.
So here's a look at the unusual conditions being reported overseas, and what we know about them so far.
1 NEWS
The latest victim of the virus was a resident of the Rosewood Rest Home in Christchurch.
READ MORE:
* Coronavirus destroys lungs. Now its damage is being found in kidneys & hearts
LOSS OF SMELL AND TASTE
The lack of smell and taste weren't initially key symptoms of Covid-19, but they have since been widely reported in patients and added to official health guidelines.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) added the symptoms to its list this week. Our Ministry of Health also updated its definition of Covid-19 symptoms to include anosmia - the loss of smell.
A number of overseas reports have said the loss of sense of smell was a potential marker for Covid-19. Ear, Nose and Throat specialists in the UK (ENT UK) have also released advice to physicians on the topic.
University of Canterbury associate professor Arindam Basu​ said the issue of the lack of a sense of smell was now well known and several case reports were available.
Alden Williams/Stuff
Community coronavirus testing at Pak 'n Save on Moorhouse Avenue. 
"A recent  preprint study  reports that the receptor the virus uses to enter human cells is found in the olfactory support cells. If this report is validated, then there may be some biological basis behind the claim.
“ Researchers wrote  on the basis of their experience in Italy that doctors should pay attention to the anosmia and ageusia (loss of smell and taste respectively), as it was the first or only symptom of Covid-19 in a 'non-negligible number of patients'.
“So, anosmia and ageusia are emerging as non-trivial symptoms that need to be registered,” he said.
'COVID TOES'
A rare - but unconfirmed - symptom that's been linked to Covid-19 patients overseas involves reddish, purple lesions and inflammation on people's feet that have been dubbed "covid toes" or "frostbite toes" .
The potential symptom is believed to have been discovered in March by Italian doctors, and seems to affect children in particular.
Esther Freeman, a dermatologist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, told The Washington Post , she has been inundated with calls about rashes popping up on people's toes.
The rashes themselves were rather harmless and could resolve on their own in two to three weeks without treatment, she said.
This possible symptom is relatively new and is mostly centred around anecdotal reports from dermatologists. More research is needed on the topic.
According to The Washington Post, a report looking at Covid-19’s dermatologic effects was expected to be published very soon. One of the findings was that most patients with “Covid toes” were  asymptomatic or had only mild symptoms, the newspaper reported.
BLOOD CLOTS AND STROKES
Although  respiratory issues related to Covid-19 have been well documented, doctors around the world have also observed kidney and heart problems , blood clots and strokes in a small group of patients.
In America, there have been a small amount of reports of strokes occurring in young and middle-aged people who have tested positive.
“Large-vessel strokes in young patients are exceedingly rare,” Thomas Oxley, a neurosurgeon at Mount Sinai told Business Insider .
Oxley has published a  paper in the New England Journal of Medicine about five stroke cases where patients had tested positive for Covid-19.
Scientists aren’t yet sure why the virus causes blood clots, but Oxley said they might be the result of blood vessels’ reaction to being invaded by the virus. It's an area where more research is needed.
Jessica Rinaldi/ The Boston Globe/AP
Cleaners unwrap their protective gear as they leave a long-term care facility in Massachusetts, US.
Otago University professor Kurt Krause​, an infectious disease physician, said it was increasingly recognised that Covid-19 was a disease that  affects multiple systems through the body .
“This is consistent with the fact that the ACE2 receptor – which the virus uses to break into human cells – can be found on a wide range of human cell surfaces, including respiratory, gastrointestinal, arterial, kidney and even in the brain.
"It is also consistent with some of the coronavirus infections in animals, like feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), in which internal coronavirus involvement is widespread.
“The ubiquitous nature of these receptors is, I think, behind the unusual symptoms we are reading about.”
UNUSUAL SKIN RASHES
Recently there have been a handful of reports of unusual skin rashes appearing on the body of Covid-19 patients.
Breaking out in a rash is not a regular known symptom of Covid-19. However, a study of 375 positive cases in Spain has looked at how the disease can impact the body's largest organ - the skin.
The peer-reviewed report was published this week in the British Journal of Dermatology . 
It found five different skin conditions experienced by some patients that could be linked to Covid-19. Some of these skin rashes included small, itchy blisters, and pink or white raised areas of the skin - like hives or nettle rash.
Dr Michael Maze​, a respiratory and infectious disease physician from the University of Otago, said that Covid-19 was a virus that could infect cells in several different organs in the body.
"Because it is new we expect over time less common symptoms will come to light. In the last week or two we are seeing reports of strokes that may be caused by Covid-19, as well as unusual skin rashes and instances where the immune system has gone haywire as a result of the virus," he said.
“While all these observations are important in helping us better understand the full spectrum of what the virus can do, we do need to remember that what is being reported appear to be rare, with only handfuls of people with these symptoms among hundreds of thousands or millions who have been infected. In New Zealand, we have very few cases by comparison.
“We need to remain alert to these rare symptoms, but fever, cough, breathlessness, muscle aches, fatigue and loss of smell are much more common. If people are having any of these symptoms – they should get tested.”
Alden Williams/Stuff
Teddy bears and other soft toys can be seen in the windows of houses around NZ.
KAWASAKI DISEASE
Some doctors in Europe and the UK have reported small but increasing numbers of sick children with features of Kawasaki disease.
Kawasaki disease is a relatively rare illness that causes inflammation (swelling and redness) in blood vessels throughout the body. It mostly affects young children and is usually treatable. If left untreated however, children can suffer heart damage.
England's NHS sent out an urgent alert  this week about features of toxic shock syndrome and atypical Kawasaki disease seen in children who had tested positive and also negative for Covid-19.
Overseas experts have expressed concern around the symptoms of inflammation, but the association between the two illnesses remains unproven.
Paediatric infectious disease specialist Tony Walls​ said there were very few details of the Covid-19 link to Kawasaki disease.
Rohan Thomson/Getty-Images
Registered nurse Fiona McDonald stands with a test kit at a drive through Covid-19 testing facility in Australia.
"This seems like it’s something that does need to be taken seriously, but at present it should not concern parents of children in New Zealand. Very few children have had Covid-19 infection in New Zealand and none have been sick enough to need hospital admission."
The cause of Kawasaki disease is unknown, but it presents with an extreme immune response to some stimulus, kind of like the immune system going into overdrive, Walls said.
"It’s thought that many different things can set this off, and what people may be worried about is that Covid-19 could be involved in some of the cases described," he said.
“These reports need to be taken in context. The UK is a country that’s suffering badly from Covid-19 presently. They have over 180,000 confirmed cases, and that’s probably an underestimate. There have been over 28,000 deaths from Covid-19 in the UK so far. So it’s a very different situation to what’s happening in New Zealand.
“Also remember we are looking at 20 possible cases out of something like 11.5m children in the UK. The reports say that half of these cases have tested negative for Covid-19.
The  UK Kawasaki Disease Foundation  have put out a statement saying there are fewer cases of the disease at the moment than we would normally expect at this time of year, he said.
The MOH in New Zealand has advice and information about Covid-19 symptoms on its website . These symptoms include a cough, a high temperature (at least 38°C), shortness of breath, a sore throat, sneezing and runny nose, and a temporary loss of smell.
If you have these symptoms, phone Healthline on  0800 358 5453  or your doctor.
Stuff