URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006893139
ID : GPHN2020050200174

Date : 2020-05-01 21:37:00
Title : London region community spread dwindles, but lockdown remains as long-term care battle continues - The London Free Press
Ariticle : 
London region community spread dwindles, but lockdown remains as long-term care battle continues
Author of the article:
Publishing date:
10 hours ago  •  3 minute read
London's Medical Officer of Health Chris Mackie of the Middlesex-London Health Unit. Mike Hensen/The London Free Press)
Article Sidebar
Share
Close
Trending
Article content
Seven weeks into the coronavirus pandemic, it appears London has subdued the spread of the virus in the community.
But it’s still not time to loosen tough public health measures and lockdowns that have helped keep a lid on COVID-19 in London-Middlesex and flatten the virus’s infection curve in the region, the area’s public health boss says.
We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
Try refreshing your browser, or
tap here to see other videos from our team .
London region community spread dwindles, but lockdown remains as long-term care battle continues Back to video
“The percent positivity in our community is very, very low. In other words, if you develop symptoms in this region, the chances are less than one per cent that you would test positive for coronavirus,” Middlesex-London Health Unit’s medical officer of health Chris Mackie said Friday.
“That said, we do have limited testing still and there hasn’t been any real survey data done to capture what is happening across the whole population.”
About 150 to 160 tests are completed each day at the city’s two assessment centres, Mackie said. The assessment centre count is in addition to the tests done in hospitals and ones administered in long-term care facilities and retirement homes.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
The number of new COVID-19 cases reported daily by the Middlesex-London Health Unit has reached a plateau in the past week. The health unit reported seven new cases Friday and one new death, bringing its total number of cases to 409. Thirty-eight people have died of COVID-19 in London-Middlesex.
Six of the new cases reported Friday are linked to long-term care or retirement homes as are seven of the nine new cases reported Thursday, Mackie said.
The continued challenge of addressing COVID-19 in congregate settings points to the existence of community spread, Mackie said.
“Coronavirus is getting into long-term care home and retirement homes because it is still present in the community. It’s not at all time to start relaxing the restrictions in the community,” Mackie said.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
“We need to continue on with these significant distancing measures.”
The positive cases in the health unit’s daily tally are either among groups prioritized for testing including residents and staff of long-term care and retirement homes or people who were feeling ill and sought help from the health-care system by visiting a COVID-19 assessment centre or hospital.
What is absent, so far, is broad-based, random sampling of the population outside the health-care system, said David Fisman, an epidemiology professor at the University of Toronto’s Dalla Lana school of public health.
“We need to figure out how to do community surveillance for COVID as we ease restrictions.  My two personal favourites are supermarket-based sampling and admission screening to hospitals, which has the added benefit of feeding good infection control practices,” Fisman said in an email.
Advertisement