URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006876268
ID : GPHN2020043000059

Date : 2020-04-30 21:34:00
Title : IIT Guwahati-Hester Biosciences Covid-19 vaccine to be ready for animal test by year-end
Ariticle : 
GUWAHATI: Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati is collaborating with Hester Biosciences Limited, an Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company to work on a vaccine development against COVID-19. They expect the vaccine to be ready by the end of this year to start animal studies. The work is currently in its early stage of development. The team at IIT Guwahati is headed by Dr Sachin Kumar, associate professor in the department of biosciences and bioengineering and the team has generated the recombinant avian paramyxovirus-1 based vaccine platform for two other viral diseases—Classical Swine Fever and Japanese Encephalitis.
 The role of the institute is to produce the recombinant vaccine candidate.Speaking about the vaccine for COVID-19, Dr Sachin Kumar, associate professor in the department of biosciences and bioengineering at IIT Guwahati, said, “It is too early to comment on the efficacy and immunogenicity of the vaccine, however, we will be able to reveal more details about this vaccine after the results of animal studies are obtained.”IIT Guwahati director, Professor TG Sitharam said he is hopeful that the outcome of this important collaboration will be a win-win situation for the country and will lead to breakthrough results in prevention of COVID-19 as well as provide leads for vaccine developments against other diseases as well in immediate future.According to a statement from IIT Guwahati, the vaccine will be based on recombinant avian paramyxovirus based vector platform. The recombinant avian paramyxovirus-1 will be used to express the immunogenic protein of SARS-CoV-2. The recombinant avian paramyxovirus-1 expressing the SARS-CoV-2 protein could be used as a vaccine candidate for further study.“The avian paramyxovirus-1 has been explored as a vaccine vector for various animals and human pathogens. The avian paramyxovirus-1 has been used to express the immunogenic protein of human pathogens such as HIV, avian influenza virus, human parainfluenza virus, SARS-CoV. Similarly, it has also been explored as a vaccine vector for animal pathogens such as infectious bursal disease virus, infectious laryngotracheitis virus, bovine herpes virus, Nipah virus etc,” the statement added.Speaking about the collaboration Rajiv Gandhi, CEO and MD of Hester Biosciences Limited, said, “In the current pandemic situation of COVID-19, the world is looking at developing preventive and curative measures to safeguard mankind. IITG & Hester have collaborated to develop and manufacture a recombinant vaccine against COVID-19 disease as a preventive measure. Hester’s involvement would be from master seed development up to release of the commercial vaccine”.He further added, “Hester has 23 years of experience in vaccine manufacturing on the veterinary side. It manufactures vaccines by using fermentation, tissue culture, continuous cell line and chick embryo origin methods. Hester is also currently working towards developing next-generation recombinant poultry vaccines. Being in veterinary vaccine manufacturing, as well as working towards developing recombinant vaccines, Hester has a fairly good understanding and the capability to get into human vaccines, specifically into a vaccine against the COVID-19 disease.”
For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com