URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872127
ID : GPHN2020042900215

Date : 2020-04-29 07:09:00
Title : DHEC reports 123 new cases, 15 more deaths
Ariticle : 
The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control reported 123 new cases of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 Tuesday, and 15 more people with the disease have died.
There are 5,735 people confirmed to have COVID-19 in South Carolina and 192 people have died.
DHEC also released Tuesday a projection that the state may see almost 1,208 new cases each week by mid-May. The number of cases is estimated to increase to 9,064 on May 16.
Based on DHEC data for 4,454 people who tested positive for COVID-19, health officials estimate 76% recovered from the illness and 24% remain ill.
Essential workers offered discounted child care
The Sunshine House Early Learning Academy will provide discounted child care to essential workers.
Parents who work as essential employees can access discounted child care during the pandemic through South Carolina's new Childcare Assistance Program, which is part of the CARES Act.
The state of South Carolina will partially reimburse childcare providers. Essential workers will be responsible for a weekly co-pay. The program is scheduled to last until the end of August, unless the state extends it.
DMV expands hours
The Department of Motor Vehicles will expand operations by reopening all 66 branch offices to increase convenience for customers, according to a press release.
The change begins Monday, May 4.
All offices will operate by appointments only, and they can be scheduled on the SCDMV website at SCDMVonline.com.
All offices, with the exception of Allendale and McCormick locations, will open Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Allendale and McCormick locations will be open only on Wednesdays.
Saluda River Rally canceled
The annual Saluda River Rally in Powdersville is canceled. The Anderson County-sponsored event scheduled for June 6 may be rescheduled for later this year, according to organizers.
The rally is separate from the planned Rhythm on the River, a festival also at the Powdersville Dolly Cooper Park scheduled for May 1. That event was also canceled.
Greenville, Anderson counties get rapid testing supplies
The state Department of Health and Environmental Control is distributing additional supplies to healthcare facilities across the state to help expand COVID-19 rapid testing.
The test recently received emergency use authorization from the FDA, according to a release from DHEC. South Carolina received 15 of the devices from FEMA and is sending them to 15 facilities, including AnMed Health in Anderson and Bon Secours in Greenville.
The rapid-test devices can provide COVID-19 specimen results in 15-20 minutes, according to DHEC.
Duke Energy donates to support summer educational programs
The Duke Energy Foundation has announced more than $340,000 in grants to support South Carolina K-12 education programs focused on summer reading loss, STEM and experiential learning, according to a release from the foundation.
Given the COVID-19 crisis, the foundation has given each grantee the opportunity for additional flexibility and the option to use the funds to address unforeseen operational challenges.
Among the recipients are the Children's Museum of the Upstate, United Way of Pickens and Anderson Counties and Girl Scouts of South Carolina.