URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006906415
ID : GPHN2020050500067

Date : 2020-05-04 20:40:00
Title : WHO insisted on the natural origin of the new coronavirus and ensures that the United States did not send it evidence otherwise
Ariticle : 
The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday rejected versions indicating that COVID-19-causing coronavirus originated in a laboratory in China by confirming that this pathogen "has animal origin," contrary to the U.S. Government's for days.
"Coronavirus circulates ancestrally among bats, it is something we know based on the genetic sequence of this virus. What we need to understand is what the animal has acted as an intermediary, that is, was infected by bats and passed it on to humans," said who's Department of Emerging Diseases chief Maria Van Kerekhov.
U.S. President Donald Trump has publicly said that SARS CoV-2 coronavirus originated in a lab in Wuhan (site of the first outbreak), which on Sunday reaffirmed its secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, who added that the government has "a huge amount of evidence" of it.
"Of all the evidence we've seen of all the genetic sequences that are available, and I think there are more than 15,000, this virus has a natural origin," Van Kerkhove said at a virtual press conference.
WHO Executive Director for Health Emergencies Mike Ryan stressed that the United States has not shared with the organization the evidence it claims to have.
WHO insists that the new coronavirus originated in wild bats, which would have then spread it to an animal that then passed it on to man (REUTERS/Sukree Sukplang) (SUKREE SUKPLANG/)"From our perspective this is speculative and like any evidence-based organization, we would very much like to receive any information regarding the origin of the virus," he added.
The doctor insisted that as long as the United States does not share this alleged information, "we focus on what we know, the evidence we have and that tells us that the virus is of animal origin."
Massive events
In another passage from the press conference, senior leaders in the pandemic hold struggle said WHO has provided a guide for governments to assess the risks posed by mass meetings now that several countries, especially in Europe, are gradually beginning to reduce social quarantine measures.
Van Kerkhove argued that in order to make an official decision in this regard, a number of criteria would have to be considered, such as the number of people who would meet, the planned location and assess whether the meeting cannot be held virtually or postponed.
A general decision is discouraged, but rather reflect on the risks on a case-by-case basis and whether or not the virus is circulating in the area.
U.S. President Donald Trump's administration upholds the theory that the new coronavirus could have emerged in a lab in the Chinese city of Wuhan and not in a market, as believed (REUTERS/Joshua Roberts) (JOSHUA ROBERTS/)"We can't telleach country has to do in each context, but if there are meetings you have to consider whether you can keep the distance between people and the hygiene measures that will be available," Ryan added.
Pharmacy sales test
At a time when coronavirus cases have exceeded 3.4 million in the world, rapid diagnostic tests have reached many countries by commercial means to be sold in free-form pharmacies and people can make a diagnosis themselves at home.
On the reliability of these tests and the danger of false negatives, Van Kerkhove said there are "hundreds" of coronavirus test types that are being sold around the world and that there are obviously "risks associated with tests being sold at every turn."
He stressed that "the most important thing is that the tests that are sold actually work well have been proven," a guarantee that can only be given by the validation of health authorities.
"You have to make sure that the result is true as the risk is that there are false positives or, worse, false negatives, which means that one may be infected (and thus infect others) even though the test says it is not," he said.
With information from EFE
MORE ON THIS TOPIC:
A medical study found that the coronavirus arrived in Europe in December, a month before the first confirmed case
Confidential report is conclusive: China concealed the severity of coronavirus to hoard basic equipment and supplies
China and new coronavirus danger: its alarming history with vaccines