URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872039
ID : GPHN2020042900224

Date : 2020-04-29 08:03:00
Title : 2 new cases in Southwest Utah, 4 more deaths statewide
Ariticle : 
Health officials reported two new confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in southwest Utah on Tuesday as the statewide total showed 110 new cases and climbed to 4,343 total since testing started last month.
There have now been 91 confirmed cases of COVID-19 across the southwest district, which includes Washington, Iron, Kane, Garfield and Beaver counties.
Across the state, there were four new deaths reported Tuesday, with all four victims identified as residents of Salt Lake County. The state has counted 45 deaths attributed to the disease so far.
Since officials started tracking the virus, 370 people have been hospitalized because of the virus.
Twenty-one of those hospitalizations were newly reported on Tuesday, a figure that represents the largest single-day increase since health officials began tracking the number.
The highest totals so far have been in Salt Lake County, with 2,256 cases, followed by Utah County with 862 and Summit County with 359.
There have been 102,439 people tested statewide, meaning about 4.2% are testing positive.
In the southwest district, both of the new reported cases came out of Washington County, according to the Southwest Utah Public Health Department. The region's most populous county has now had 64 confirmed cases.
Iron County has had 21 cases, with three in both Kane and Garfield counties, while none have been reported out of Beaver County.
The region has seen two deaths, with one reported March 26 and another on April 23. Both victims were women, one older than 60 and one younger than 60, and both had underlying health conditions, according to the SWUPHD.
Utah makes 2 million
facemasks available
Every household in Utah has a chance to order facemasks from the government to attempt to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus, Gov. Gary Herbert announced Tuesday.
The program, which he dubbed "A Mas for every Utahn," was unveiled as Herbert announced an official step back from the state's most stringent stay-at-home orders.
Starting Friday, Utah is moving from a "red" to "orange" phase on the governor's proposal to gradually scale back restrictions.
The state will now allow gatherings of up to 20 people, and most businesses, including dine-in restaurants, will be allowed to open as long as they follow specific guidelines spelled out in the state's plan.
When leaving home, all residents should still maintain the recommended 6 feet of space between themselves and others and to follow social distancing norms, such as wearing a mask when shopping and otherwise participating in activities that could bring people close together.
People who are considered at higher risk because of age or other health concerns are advised to continue avoiding leaving home unless necessary.
According to Herbert's plan on masks, there will be 2 million masks made available to residents, with each household able to order up to six from a state stockpile.
Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox said those who already have masks should not order any, and medical-grade, N95 masks are still set aside for medical workers and other emergency responders.
U.S. now has more
than 1 million cases
The United States topped 1 million confirmed cases of coronavirus Tuesday – nearly a third of the world's cases – as health authorities here and around the globe try to understand the full scope of who is at risk and who has been infected.
Reaching seven figures – 1,002,498 to be exact – is the latest milestone for the U.S., which has topped 57,000 deaths during the pandemic, according to the Johns Hopkins University dashboard. That's a number approaching the 58,220 Americans killed in the Vietnam War from 1955 to 1975.
And despite warnings from national health leaders that the country could face a second wave of the virus in late 2020, states and cities are drafting or implementing plans to get people out of their homes and back into mainstream life.
It's all happened in about three months. That's when the country's first case was confirmed, and much of what we know about the virus is still subject to study and debate.
Latest symptoms
There are now six new symptoms the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention caution could be signs of the coronavirus: Chills, repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat and a loss of taste or smell.
Shortness of breath was tweaked to "shortness of breath or difficulty breathing" by the CDC, which recommends seeking "medical attention immediately" for trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure on chest, bluish lips or face, or a new confusion or inability to awaken.
The daily spike in new cases had slowed in recent weeks, but April 24 saw a new daily high for the U.S. with 36,200 new cases reported.