URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006880053
ID : GPHN2020043000140

Date : 2020-04-30 07:07:00
Title : 10 new COVID-19 cases, but curve starting to flatten
Ariticle : 
Ten new cases of COVID-19 were confirmed by the Calhoun County Public Health Department as of Wednesday morning, bringing the local total to 219.
Despite the increase in cases, there are signs that the local curve is flattening, according to Calhoun County Public Health Department Health Officer Eric Pessell.
During the last week, 50 new cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed. That's the smallest week-over-week increase in the number of cases since the period between April 1 and April 8.
And 104 people who had confirmed cases of COVID-19 had been released from isolation orders as of Tuesday afternoon, according to the Calhoun County Health Department.
"We are starting to see, as you can see, a flattening starting in the curve. We're hoping that that will continue," Pessell said.
Data from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services also shows that the number of new cases in southwest Michigan is also beginning to plateau.
"Region 5 is showing that the infection rate is going down," Pessell said. "We believe that Calhoun County would mimic this."
Locally, there is still concern about the availability of testing because lack of testing makes it difficult to determine if the infection rate in Calhoun County is slowing, Pessell said.
Since the outbreak began, 2,322 people have been tested for COVID-19, according to Pessell. That represents about 1.7% of Calhoun County's total population.
The Calhoun County Public Health Department does not have data on the number of daily tests occurring in the community.
"We're trying to find out what our daily test numbers are, so we can actually look at our infection rates and see if our infection rate is indeed coming down, staying the same or going up," Pessell said. "We believe it's going down, but it's very hard to get those numbers."
Cases are continuing to increase on a daily basis, but that is to be expected as everyone can still travel for essential needs, Pessell said.
"Even though we're shut down, we still have essential people working and we still have everybody who can go out for essential needs," Pessell said. "I think the changes that have happened more recently, the requirement that we wear a mask once we're indoors, will go a long way in helping us to reduce some of those numbers and those infections that were happening in our essential locations like our grocery stores."
The total number of COVID-19 cases in Michigan passed 40,000 on Wednesday, with 1,137 new cases added for a total of 40,399.
Of those, 3,670 have died, with 103 new deaths added on Wednesday.
Going forward, Pessell said that wearing a mask in public spaces will be an important part of continuing to stop the spread of the virus as the stay-at-home orders are lifted.
The Calhoun County Public Health Department is continuing to monitor hospital capacity closely.
Since the beginning of the outbreak, 55 Calhoun County residents have been hospitalized for COVID-19, and as of Wednesday morning, 18 people were in the hospital. Of those, 12 people were in critical care.
The capacity for critical care beds in the county is 50 beds.
"As we do open back up, this will be an important part for us to keep an eye on," Pessell said.
Health officials continue to urge people to follow necessary health precautions, including washing their hands frequently for at least 20 seconds, sanitizing commonly touched surfaces and staying at home. When people go out in public, they should maintain 6 feet of distance between themselves and others and wear a mask.
Those with COVID-19 symptoms – which include fever, coughing and shortness of breath – are encouraged to seek out testing. Before visiting a test site, people are encouraged to call ahead to see what protocols are in place as the availability of testing may be different at each location.
Calhoun County continues to provide regular updates on its response to COVID-19 online. The state is also providing daily updates at michigan.gov/coronavirus.
Contact Elena Durnbaugh at (269) 243-5938 or edurnbaugh@battlecreekenquirer.com.