URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006913151
ID : GPHN2020050600069

Date : 2020-05-06 20:25:00
Title : Compound in licorice extract has potential for treatment, Beijing researchers find
Ariticle : 
A compound found in licorice extract that is used in traditional Chinese medicine has shown potential as an antiviral to treat the new coronavirus, according to an initial study by researchers in Beijing.
Chinese licorice, a flowering plant that is native to Asia, contains a compound called liquiritin, which the team said was found to prevent rapid replication of the new virus strain in monkey cells.
The study, which has not been peer-reviewed, used artificial intelligence technology to speed up the research process.
"We recommend liquiritin as a competitive candidate for treating Covid-19," the team of medical experts from Peking University and the Academy of Military Science wrote in a preprint paper on the bioRxiv website.
Scientists worldwide are racing to develop treatments and a vaccine for the disease.
Patients are most commonly treated with antiviral drugs, but none have yet been proven effective against the coronavirus. Drugs that can calm the immune system and antibodies that can attack the virus are also being used.
Liquiritin is usually found in the form of herbal compound licorice tablets in China, where traditional medicine has been touted by Beijing as an important treatment for Covid-19 patients - though many scientists are sceptical about its benefits.
According to the research paper, liquiritin functions as an antioxidant and has antidepressant, neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory and therapeutic effects on patients with heart disease. Licorice extract is also commonly used for gastrointestinal and respiratory problems, as well as widely used as a sweetener.
The team used an AI system to predict the efficacy of liquiritin, finding it significantly inhibited the replication of the new virus strain, Sars-CoV-2, in Vero cells - a cell line developed from a monkey.
The researchers also tested the compound on mice for seven days, finding liquiritin "didn't show toxicity or side effects in two independent experiments", according to the paper.
"In summary, we suggest that liquiritin should be assessed in human patients suffering from Covid-19," they wrote. They also suggested the compound could potentially have "a broad and potent antiviral function on other viral pathogens" like hepatitis B and HIV.
Kinling Lo
Headline of the Online Version: Compound in licorice extract has potential to treat coronavirus, Chinese study finds