URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006904889
ID : GPHN2020050500019

Date : 2020-05-04 15:05:00
Title : Rochelle Foods set to re-open food production facility in Illinois, US
Ariticle : 
Hormel Foods' wholly-owned subsidiary Rochelle Foods is set to re-open its facility today following a 14-day voluntary closure.
Last month, Rochelle Foods temporarily suspended food production at its facility in Illinois, US, amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.
Rochelle Foods received notice from the Ogle County Health Department to immediately shut down the plant for at least two weeks.
The decision to close the facility took place after more than 20 cases of Covid-19 were linked to the site.
The facility engages in the production of grocery, foodservice and specially-formulated cancer nutrition products.
Rochelle Foods plant manager Bill Rice said: "We have been a proud member of Ogle County and Rochelle for decades and we know that this current Covid-19 pandemic has been a very difficult situation for our team members, their families, our friends and neighbours, our community and our nation.
"We want to thank the community for the outpouring of support as we navigate this pandemic's impact and those who helped us execute our pilot testing program. Everyone who has reached out to us and our team members understands this pandemic is occurring everywhere and we are not alone in our efforts to protect our team members and this community.
"We have put the safety of our team members first throughout this pandemic and will continue to do so. As a leading employer in the area, and one with our core priority on the health and safety of our employees, we are certainly eager to get back to doing what we love and that's making great food."
The company added that it completed testing of its team members last week, with the vast majority testing negative.
During the 14-day shutdown, the company said it has implemented additional enhanced safety measures by carrying out deep-cleaning of high-touch areas, reconfiguring common areas and workstations and revised shift scheduling.