URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006875370
ID : GPHN2020043000026

Date : 2020-04-29 17:21:00
Title : Health Express offering COVID-19 antibody testing
Ariticle : 
WEYMOUTH - Front line workers and people who had flu-like symptoms but were never tested for COVID-19 can now visit five local urgent care centers to find out if they have been exposed to the virus and potentially have immunity.
Health Express, part of South Shore Health, is now offering COVID-19 antibody testing at its locations in Weymouth, Quincy, Abington, Pembroke and Plymouth. The lab-based blood test, developed by Abbott Labs, tests for the antibody IgG to identify if a person has had COVID-19.
"We've been watching the antibody test, and we know it will be important to track surveillance and know more about potential immunity," said Chris Whelan, president and CEO of Health Express.
"We all know there's a big demand for the test and the consumer wants it."
The World Health Organization last week warned, "No study has evaluated whether the presence of antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 confers immunity to subsequent infection by this virus in humans." But antibody testing is important for experts to learn more about COVID-19, including how long antibodies stay in the body and if they provide immunity for re-infection, as with some other viruses, experts say.
"A negative result suggests you have not been exposed to the virus that causes COVID-19. This means you are susceptible to acquiring the virus in the future," Dr.
Todd Ellerin, head of Infectious Diseases at South Shore Health, said in a statement.
"A positive or negative study should not, however, change infection control recommendations: hand washing, wearing masks in public, social distancing and guidance on staying at home."
Whalen said Quest Labs, which is processing the tests from Health Express, will provide results and demographic information to the state Department of Public Health. Whalen said patients will get the results within 24 to 48 hours.
Health Express is only testing patients who have been symptom-free for at least 14 days prior to testing. Patients who still have a mild cough, runny nose, or are otherwise still recovering must wait until they are completely recovered to test. Patients must be at least 10 years old to be screened.
Whalen said the urgent care centers are being extremely cautious. Patients wait in their vehicles, must wear masks and go directly into an exam room to ensure social distancing practices.
The centers also do not see suspected COVID-19 patients.
The testing is provided on a walk-in basis, and Whalen said 450 patients were tested across the five locations on Monday alone.
While Health Express facilities are operating on reduced hours and two locations remain closed, Whalen said the sites could increase hours to accommodate more testing as long as supplies and equipment are available.
"We're going to meet the demand and increase as necessary," he said.
Earlier this month, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Departments of Labor and the Treasury issued guidance requiring private health insurance to cover COVID-19 antibody testing.
Whalen encourages patients to contact their health insurance companies prior to visiting Health Express for the antibody test to confirm coverage.