URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006905006
ID : GPHN2020050500024

Date : 2020-05-04 15:34:00
Title : Kolkata, May 4 (PTI) Following are the top stories from the Eastern Region at 9 pm.
Ariticle : 
CAL 19 AS-AFRICAN SWINE FEVER
African swine fever detected in India for 1st time;
2,500 pigs die in Assam
Guwahati: The first instance of African swine fever
has been reported in the country in Assam where the disease
has killed around 2,500 pigs across 306 villages, Animal
Husbandry Minister Atul Bora said.
CAL 20 OD-LOCKDOWN-SITUATION
Business activities, movement of people resume in
Odisha's green, orange zones
Bhubaneswar: Business activities and movement of
people resumed mainly in green and orange zones of Odisha as
the state government considerably relaxed the lockdown curbs
on Monday.
CAL 21 AS-LOCKDOWN-RELAXATION
COVID-19: More shops open in Assam after govt relaxes
lockdown norms
Guwahati: After 40 days of strict restrictions, the
Assam government on Monday relaxed coronavirus-triggered
lockdown norms allowing more shops to open in the state.
CAL 23 BH-LOCKDOWN-LD MIGRANTS NITISH
Students not to pay fare; migrant workers to get full
reimbursement: Nitish
Patna: Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar made it clear
on Monday that his government will bear full expenses towards
the homeward journey of students and migrant workers stranded
outside the state because of the lockdown, in a rebuff to the
opposition which has accused him of leaving them in the lurch.
CAL 25 WB-VIRUS-DEATH
11 more die of COVID-19 in West Bengal, total death
toll 61
Kolkata: Eleven people died due to COVID-19 in West
Bengal in the last 24 hours, taking to 61 the total number of
people to have succumbed to the disease in the state, Chief
Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Monday.
CAL 27 WB-DHANKHAR-LD MAMATA
West Bengal emerging as police state: Governor Jagdeep
Dhankhar
Kolkata: West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on
Monday mounted a fresh assault on Chief Minister Mamata
Banerjee, accusing her of running a "police state" and saying
her "misplaced" stance about constitutional norms reflects
"authoritarianism" which has no place in a democracy.
CAL 28 OD-JAGANNATH
Chariot construction for Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra
to start soon: Managing committee
Bhubaneswar: The Shree Jagannath Temple Managing
Committee (SJTMC) on Monday resolved to go ahead with the
construction of chariots for the annual Rath Yatra of Lord
Jagannath scheduled to be held on June 23.
CAL 29 OD-LOCKDOWN-TRAINS
Over 3,000 migrant workers reach Odisha in Shramik
Express trains from Gujarat, Kerala
Berhampur: Over 3,000 migrant workers stranded in
Gujarat and Kerala returned to Odisha's Ganjam district by
special Shramik Express trains on Monday, officials said.
CAL 31 BH-VIRUS-ZONES
No green zone in Bihar, don't fool around during
lockdown, says top cop
Patna: None of the 38 districts of Bihar has been
classified as a green zone, Director General of Police
Gupteshwar Pandey said Monday, urging residents to remain
indoors and not mistake movement of people for essential or
government services as a relaxation in lockdown curbs.
CAL 32 OD-VIRUS-LD CASES
7 new COVID-19 cases in Odisha, tally rises to 169
Bhubaneswar: Seven more people, including six who
recently returned from Kolkata, tested positive for COVID-19
in Odisha on Monday, taking the number cases in the state to
169, officials said.
CAL 33 WB-VIRUS-LD CENTRAL TEAM
Central team indicts Bengal govt over COVID-19, says
12.8 pc mortality highest in country
Kolkata: The COVID-19 mortality rate in West Bengal is
the highest in the country at 12.8 per cent and reflects "low
testing and weak surveillance" while tackling the pandemic,
the Centre's inter-ministerial team that visited the state to
assess the situation said on Monday. PTI
RG RG