URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006911603
ID : GPHN2020050600024

Date : 2020-05-05 16:03:00
Title : The reality of COVID-19 in the US is an unrelenting crush of cases and deaths
Ariticle : 
Via The New York Times: Coronavirus News: Live Updates.
The reality of the coronavirus in the U.S. is an unrelenting crush of cases and deaths.
While the worst-hit parts of the United States have seen new infections recede and hospitalizations drop after strict social-distancing measures were put in place, the country is still in the firm grip of a pandemic.
For every indication of improvement in controlling the virus, new outbreaks have emerged elsewhere, providing a steady, unrelenting march of deaths and infections.
As states continue to lift restrictions, impatient Americans are freely returning to shopping, lingering in restaurants and gathering in parks. New flare-ups and super-spreader events are expected to be close behind. New Reported Cases by Day As the New York metro area has seen a recent decline in new cases, the number of cases in the rest of the United States has steadily increased.
Julie Bosman, Mitch Smith and Amy Harmon report that any notion that the threat is fading away appears to be magical thinking, at odds with what the latest numbers show.
Coronavirus in the United States now looks like this: More than a month has passed since there was a day with fewer than 1,000 deaths from the virus. Almost every day, at least 25,000 new cases are identified, meaning that the total in the United States — which has the highest number of known cases in the world with more than a million — is expanding by 2 to 4 percent daily.
Rural towns that one month ago were unscathed are suddenly hot spots. It is rampaging through nursing homes, meatpacking plants and prisons, killing the medically vulnerable and the poor, and new outbreaks keep emerging in grocery stores, supermarkets or factories, an ominous harbinger of what a full reopening of the economy could bring.
While dozens of rural counties have no known coronavirus cases, a panoramic view of the country reveals a grim and distressing picture.
“If you include New York, it looks like a plateau moving down,’’ said Andrew Noymer, an associate professor of public health at the University of California, Irvine. “If you exclude New York, it’s a plateau slowly moving up.”
Consider Chicago and Los Angeles, which have flattened their curves and avoided the explosive growth of New York City. Even so, coronavirus cases in their counties have more than doubled since April 18. Cook County, home to Chicago, is now sometimes adding more than 2,000 new cases in a day, and Los Angeles County has often been adding at least 1,000.
It is not just the major cities. Smaller towns and rural counties in the Midwest and South have suddenly been hit hard, underscoring the capriciousness of the pandemic.
Dakota County, Neb., which has the third-most cases per capita in the country, had no known cases as recently as April 11. Now the county is a hot zone for the virus.
“It’s the balance of something that’s a very difficult choice, like how many deaths and how much suffering are you willing to accept to get back to what you want to be, some form of normality, sooner rather than later?” Dr. Anthony Fauci, the administration’s top infectious disease official, said Monday on CNN.