URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006869256
ID : GPHN2020042900123

Date : 2020-04-28 00:30:00
Title : Unprecedented Levels Of Blood Clotting In COVID-19 Patients Create New Fears For Virus - The Organization for World Peace
Ariticle : 
The Organization for World Peace
)
New Blood Clotting Problems Among COVID-19 Patients
Positive COVID-19 patients have begun to develop blood clots at new and alarming rates, which increases the risk of suffering more severe symptoms and other potentially fatal infections. The first waves of Coronavirus left doctors with the belief they were tackling a somewhat regular strand of respiratory virus. Doctors had a grasp of what could be expected from patients who had contracted the disease, even without an existing cure.
However, since the initial outbreak, the virus is increasingly attacking other organs including the kidneys, heart, intestines, liver and brain. Positive cases are now resulting in oxygen levels so low the host should be unconscious or near death. Patients with a seemingly mild condition are deteriorating in minutes and dying on their couches at home. To date, no connection has been made between this phenomenon and the age or pre-existing illnesses of affected patients. The virus having increased durability questions whether governments should really be lowering safety measures.
Confused and Concerned
Dr. Kathryn Hibbert is director of the medical intensive care unit at Massachusetts General Hospital. CNN describes a recent case where Hibbert attempted to set an intravenous line in one of her suffering patient’s wrist arteries. A blood clot proceeded to block her tubing. Hibbert tried again with a new needle but faced the same clogging. Hibbert had to insert the IV line three times before being successful. Lewis Kaplan; a University of Pennsylvania physician and head of the Society of Critical Care Medicine, explained doctors regularly treat patients with diagnoses ranging from cancer to trauma, who suffer clotting problems. However, “they do not clot like this,” he said. “We don’t yet understand why there is a clot… Therefore, we are scared.”
Washington Post reports early data from China shows more than 70 percent of a group of 183 patients developed small blood clots whilst having the virus. However, separating what may be blood clotting and a Coronavirus infection may present an entirely different problem. Viren Kaul; a pulmonary critical care specialist at Crouse Health and professor of medicine at State University of New York, told ABC News screening for blood clotting during infection requires more time and resources. It takes over an hour to sanitize the full surface of CT scanning machines after a single use. This creates additional adversity for the health care system already concerned with the impact of COVID-19.
Response and Resolution
Many hospitals must approach the virus differently. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention among others initially believed people with asthma were most vulnerable to contraction. However, data released by New York state earlier this month shows the health problems most vulnerable to the virus are cardiovascular conditions rather than respiratory. The Washington Post reports medical centers are beginning to administer patients with blood thinners in order to prevent clotting. Thinners risk excessive bleeding when incorrectly given however, which may cause higher death rates. Doctors cannot effectively treat COVID-19 patients suffering from severe clotting without knowing the root of the issue.
The call for thorough medical study and analysis is crucial in order to stop the virus from mutating. Samples are the first step in ensuring the withdrawal of national lock downs are not catastrophic. Neglecting this very present and threatening issue will further compromise basic human rights. It is relevant for international health and support if we wish to eradicate the effects of COVID-19.
 