URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006888005
ID : GPHN2020050200008

Date : 2020-04-30 18:31:00
Title : Nunavut, Nunavik roll out rapid testing for COVID-19 - Nunatsiaq News
Ariticle : 
In 2012, Dr. Gonzalo Alvarez explains how the Qikiqtani General Hospital’s new GeneXpert machine works to then-federal Health Minister Leona Aglukkaq during a March 22 tour of the hospital’s laboratory. (File photo)
News  30 April 2020 – 2:31 pm EDT
Nunavut, Nunavik roll out rapid testing for COVID-19
GeneXpert systems, deployed for TB testing, now used to test for novel coronavirus
By Elaine Anselmi
Tuberculosis testing machines already located in Nunavut and Nunavik are the next step toward rapid-result testing for COVID-19 in the North.
GeneXpert machines, made by the medical technology company Cepheid, test for infectious diseases including influenza and Ebola, as well as tuberculosis. They do this through specialized cartridges for each type of infection.
GeneXpert machines are already in place for TB testing in Iqaluit and Rankin Inlet in Nunavut, and in Kuujjuaq and Puvirnituq in Nunavik.
Nunavik has now begun using the CoV-2 cartridges for its machines, said Josee Levesque, a communications officer for the Nunavik Regional Board of Health and Social Services.
As of Tuesday, April 28, Nunavik’s health board said that the region has had 16 cases of COVID-19 . Of those, 13 individuals have now recovered.
In Nunavut, which saw its first confirmed case of COVID-19 announced on Thursday, April 30, the GeneXpert machines are part of the Department of Health’s plans for developing novel coronavirus testing capabilities within the territory, said Alison Griffin, a communications officer with the department.
A SARS-CoV-2 cartridge for the GeneXpert machine. (Photo from Cepheid.com)
Working with both Cepheid and Canada’s National Microbiology Laboratory, Nunavut was able to access the cartridges this week, in time to begin testing contacts of the territory’s first case of COVID-19 in the community of Pond Inlet.
These tests are only being administered in emergency situations, such as the need to test the contacts of the individual with Nunavut’s first confirmed case.
Results from the GeneXpert machines in Nunavik are still being confirmed by laboratories down south, since it is new technology, said Levesque. And Griffin said a similar second confirmation would be required of tests in Nunavut.
Nonetheless, a positive result from the GeneXpert machine is being treated as positive, in that isolation measures apply immediately, said Levesque.
Using GeneXpert machines for COVID-19 testing is largely the same process as for tuberculosis, explained Michael Loeffelholz, senior director of medical affairs for Cepheid during a webinar on the GeneXpert system’s use for the novel coronavirus.