URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892153
ID : GPHN2020050200141

Date : 2020-05-02 07:11:00
Title : Making sense of spike in cases
Ariticle : 
The numbers will rise, but cases were there all along.
Beginning Friday and stretching into the weekend, many critical workers in the region's poultry processing plants and their families will receive much-needed mass testing for COVID-19, a disease caused by the novel coronavirus.
Targeted mass testing of this nature has yet to be seen on Maryland's Eastern Shore since this worldwide pandemic gripped the United States in recent months.
But outbreaks within the meat processing industry have sparked major concern — a central reason Wicomico County now has the fifth-highest per capita case rate in the state.
Infection numbers recorded from individual, local plants have not been provided by the state — though 262 cases associated with the industry had been confirmed in Maryland by Wednesday.
Now a two-day, drive-thru testing outfit is being held outside Arthur W. Perdue Stadium, focusing resources on employees of Perdue's Salisbury, Maryland, processing plant and the Amick processing plant in Hurlock, Maryland. The testing started Friday and continues today.
Reported case totals on the Lower Shore will jump.
But what does that mean?
Joshua Sharfstein put it succinctly.
"Counties won't suddenly explode with cases," said the vice dean for Public Health Practice and Community Engagement at Johns Hopkins University and former secretary of Maryland Department of Health. "They'll suddenly realize the problem that they have."
"Testing doesn't generate new cases," he continued. "The cases are already there — you're just finding them."
Testing for the coronavirus has been difficult for hospitals across the nation as resources like kits, swabs and reagents have been at unprecedented demand and short supply.
Salisbury's Peninsula Regional Medical Center has felt the impact.
"I think one of the misconceptions is that we don't have testing — we do," said Steve Leonard, president and CEO of Peninsula Regional Health System.
The medical center has encouraged those with symptoms to call a doctor and seek care, regardless of testing.
As of Thursday, PRMC had about 60 positive COVID-19 patients, while roughly eight individuals required ventilators as of Thursday morning. Nanticoke Memorial Hospital in Seaford, a Peninsula Regional partner, maintains roughly 40 COVID-19 patients as of the same day.