URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006906363
ID : GPHN2020050500057

Date : 2020-05-04 15:38:00
Title : Rapid reconstruction of SARS-CoV-2 using a synthetic genomics platform
Ariticle : 
04 May 2020
This is an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. Nature Research are providing this early                             version of the manuscript as a service to our authors and readers. The manuscript will undergo copyediting,                             typesetting and a proof review before it is published in its final form. Please note that during                             the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal                             disclaimers apply.
Rapid reconstruction of SARS-CoV-2 using a synthetic genomics platform
Virology
Abstract
Reverse genetics has been an indispensable tool revolutionising insights into viral pathogenesis and vaccine development. Large RNA virus genomes, such as from Coronaviruses, are cumbersome to clone and manipulate in E. coli due to size and occasional instability1–3. Therefore, an alternative rapid and robust reverse genetics platform for RNA viruses would benefit the research community. Here we show the full functionality of a yeast-based synthetic genomics platform to genetically reconstruct diverse RNA viruses, including members of the Coronaviridae, Flaviviridae and Paramyxoviridae families. Viral subgenomic fragments were generated using viral isolates, cloned viral DNA, clinical samples, or synthetic DNA, and reassembled in one step in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using transformation associated recombination (TAR) cloning to maintain the genome as a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC). T7-RNA polymerase has been used to generate infectious RNA to rescue viable virus. Based on this platform we have been able to engineer and resurrect chemically-synthetized clones of the recent epidemic SARS-CoV-24 in only a week after receipt of the synthetic DNA fragments. The technical advance we describe here allows a rapidly response to emerging viruses as it enables the generation and functional characterization of evolving RNA virus variants—in real-time—during an outbreak.
These authors contributed equally: Tran Thi Nhu Thao, Fabien Labroussaa, Nadine Ebert
These authors jointly supervised this work: Joerg Jores, Volker Thiel
Affiliations
Institute of Virology and Immunology (IVI), Bern, Switzerland
Tran Thi Nhu Thao
Department of Infectious Diseases and Pathobiology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
Tran Thi Nhu Thao
Graduate School for Biomedical Science, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
Tran Thi Nhu Thao
Institute of Veterinary Bacteriology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
Fabien Labroussaa
Insitute for Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
Melle Holwerda
Department for Molecular & Medical Virology, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Bochum, Germany
Stephanie Pfaender
Institute of Virology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, Germany
Simon Schröder
German Centre for Infection Research, associated partner Charité, Berlin, Germany
Doreen Muth
Martsinovsky Institute of Medical Parasitology, Tropical and Vector Borne Diseases, Sechenov University, Moscow, Russia
Marcel A. Müller