URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006887283
ID : GPHN2020050100250

Date : 2020-04-30 20:33:00
Title : Timiskaming Health Unit confirms two COVID-19 outbreaks - The North Bay Nugget
Ariticle : 
Timiskaming Health Unit confirms two COVID-19 outbreaks
Search the North Bay Nugget
Close Search
Timiskaming Health Unit confirms two COVID-19 outbreaks
Cases reported at district long-term care homes
More from Nugget Staff
Published on: April 30, 2020 | Last Updated: April 30, 2020 5:54 PM EDT
This undated transmission electron microscope image shows SARS-CoV-2, also known as novel coronavirus, the virus that causes COVID-19, isolated from a patient in the U.S. Virus particles are shown emerging from the surface of cells cultured in the lab. The spikes on the outer edge of the virus particles give coronaviruses their name, crown-like. Photo supplied
Share Adjust Comment Print
The Timiskaming Health Unit is reporting two confirmed COVID-19 outbreaks at long-term care homes in the district.
Two residents of the Northview Nursing Home in Englehart have confirmed positive for COVID-19, while Temiskaming Lodge in Haileybury has one resident and three staff members who have tested positive.
All affected residents are in isolation and are medically stable, while COVID-19 positive staff members have been notified and are in self-isolation.
A media release from the health unit says ministry direction requires that an outbreak be declared with a single laboratory-confirmed case in a resident or staff member.
“Having had previous cases of COVID-19 transmitted through community spread we knew the possibility of more cases existed,” said Dr. Glenn Corneil, acting medical officer of health and CEO for the Timiskaming District.
“Even if people have mild symptoms, the risk of transmission needs to be taken very seriously, and everyone needs to continue to follow all recommended public health measures to protect themselves and others.”
The health unit notes that the Ontario government earlier in the week launched a province-wide surveillance testing initiative for all long-term care home residents and staff, including asymptomatic individuals.
“The Timiskaming Health Unit, along with local hospitals and Ontario Health, are working closely with these facilities to ensure all measures are in place to protect residents and staff,” the media release said. “Investigations regarding these cases continue with contact tracing, in order to further reduce the risk of spreading the virus.”
As of Wednesday afternoon, the health unit had reported 12 confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 in the district, of which 11 had been resolved.