URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872111
ID : GPHN2020042900218

Date : 2020-04-28 07:33:00
Title : Two positive COVID-19 tests at nursing home were false positives
Ariticle : 
In a statement posted their Facebook page, Agape Nursing and Rehabilitation Center reported two residents who had previously tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, have now tested negative.
"Agape Nursing and Rehabilitation Center does not have any staff or residents with COVID-19," the statement read.
On April 25, two residents tested positive for the virus after the facility elected to test all 170-plus residents and staff out of "an abundance of caution." Following the positive result, the patients were placed in isolation and re-tested by the health department, which determined the results to be false.
"Upon further testing by the department of health and the state lab, the resident test results were found negative for COVID-19 and the health department ruled the tests a false positive, which means the residents did not have COVID-19," the statement said. "Although it was unfortunate to get a false positive, which can happen with COVID-19 tests, the facility, staff, and residents were relieved to learn they did not have Covid-19 virus in the facility."
As of Tuesday, there were 478 cases of COVID-19 at long-term care facilities across the state, resulting in 44 deaths. In a statement issued that same day, Tennessee Department of Health Commissioner Dr. Lisa Piercey said the data "give a clear picture on the risks that the virus poses to long-term care facilities." Numbers of infections at long-term care facilities are updated every Friday.
Additional COVID-19 cases have been confirmed at two other local nursing homes, Ivy Hall in Elizabethton and Cornerstone Village in Johnson City. Christian Care Center in Bristol also reported a case of COVID-19 that was later determined to be false. Results are pending to confirm the negative result.