URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006894039
ID : GPHN2020050300008

Date : 2020-04-30 18:02:00
Title : Fewer people in Ontario seeking help for serious heart attacks: Heart and Stroke - durhamradionews.com
Ariticle : 
Fewer people in Ontario seeking help for serious heart attacks: Heart and Stroke
April 30, 2020 | 1:52 pm
The Heart and Stroke Foundation and Canadian Cardiovascular Society are worried that some people may be avoiding hospitals, even when faced with an emergency such as a serious heart attack, due to COVID-19.
Both organizations analyzed data from cardiac centres across the province and found an unusually low number of people seem to be turning up at hospitals with the most serious type of heart attack, known as a STEMI.
They say researchers found emergency department visits by STEMI patients fell by nearly 30 per cent between March 16 and April 12 compared to a year earlier.
The organizations say hospitals in B.C. are reporting similar numbers.
Experts don’t think the number of serious heart attacks has actually fallen, however they are worried that heart patients are avoiding hospitals out of fear of catching COVID-19.
Canadian Cardiovascular Society president Dr. Andrew Krahn calls the findings “distressing” and urges anyone with signs of heart attack or stroke to seek immediate medical attention.
He says the healthcare system has protocols in place to protect patients and that it is prepared to respond to life-threatening medical issues during the pandemic.
“We need to remind people that emergencies such as heart attacks and stroke require immediate medical attention and the system is there for them,” Krahn said Thursday in a release. “Ignoring the signs of a serious health crisis can have dire consequences including greater disability or death.”
Anne Simard, chief mission and research officer at Heart and Stroke, says anyone living with a chronic condition like high blood pressure, heart disease or stroke with new or worsening symptoms should seek urgent medical treatment.
“We know everyone is concerned given the pandemic but if these other serious issues are not treated and managed, people can become critically ill or worse,” Simard added.
The signs of stroke can be remembered with the FAST acronym: Is the Face drooping? Can you raise both Arms? Is Speech slurred or jumbled? If so, it’s Time to call 911.
Signs of a heart attack include chest pressure, squeezing, fullness or pain, sweating, discomfort in the neck, jaw, shoulder, arms, or upper back, nausea, shortness of breath, and light-headedness.
Photo courtesy of Lakeridge Health
If you have found a spelling error, please, notify us by selecting that text and pressing Ctrl+Enter.