URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912372
ID : GPHN2020050600040

Date : 2020-05-05 17:17:00
Title : Why is Wilmington not in line for COVID-19 drug?
Ariticle : 
WILMINGTON -- The drug that's shown the most promise in treating COVID-19 is being distributed to U.S. hospitals this week, but don't expect it to be available in our region -- at least not yet.
Remdesivir (pronounced rem-DESS-i-veer) was originally developed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. to treat ebola. In January, the Foster City, Calif., biopharmaceutical company began testing the broad-spectrum antiviral drug as a treatment for COVID-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus infection.
Of the many antivirals being investigated, remdesivir is "likely the most promising," according to Dr. Paul G. Auwaerter, director of infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
Although more testing is needed, a recent government-sponsored study found that remdesivir shortened the recovery time from COVID-19 by 31 percent -- an average of four days -- for patients hospitalized with the virus.
*****
This story is being provided for free as a public service to our readers during the coronavirus pandemic. Please support local journalism by subscribing to the StarNews at www.StarNewsOnline.com/subscribenow
*****
Since remdesivir is not approved to treat COVID-19, the FDA granted an Emergency Use Authorization to treat people hospitalized with severe COVID-19. The drug, which has to be injected into a vein, is not commercially available, but Gilead has donated enough to the U.S. government to treat 150,000 to 200,000 patients.
It's not likely any of those patients will be in coastal North Carolina. When the StarNews contacted hospitals across the region Monday, the consensus view was that the drug would be going elsewhere -- at least at first.
"We are working through the process to try to obtain this medication, but understand federal officials are prioritizing where it goes based on epidemiological trends," said Julian March, media relations coordinator for New Hanover Regional Medical Center.
The reason it's not likely to be sent here right now bodes well for how North Carolina is faring in the COVID-19 battle -- at least medically. Compared with other states, North Carolina hasn't been hit particularly hard with cases.
As of Tuesday morning, 11,871 cases had been reported in the Tar Heel State, much lower than similar-sized Ohio (20,474), Georgia (28,345), and Michigan (43,928). There have been 454 deaths in North Carolina. Nationwide there have been nearly 1.2 million cases and just under 69,000 deaths.
"The manufacturer and U.S. government are identifying heavily impacted areas that will be given preference for distribution at this time," Dr. Genelle Butz, pharmacy director at CarolinaEast Health System in New Bern, said Monday. "I anticipate we will not be identified as a high-risk area in the beginning."
(Small metro areas with large meatpacking industries are seeing some of the biggest rates of growth in cases, The New York Times reported Tuesday.)
A spokesperson for Novant, which owns Brunswick Medical Center, said the Winston-Salem-based health system was encouraged by the approval for emergency use of remdesivir and is working to obtain the experimental treatment for use at its hospitals.
For now, however, it will be available only through the federal government.
Jessie LaBombard, a spokeswoman for Onslow Memorial Hospital in Jacksonville, explained that without full FDA approval, remdesivir cannot be purchased through normal channels.
"It appears the drug will be sent to "hot-spot" areas as determined by government agencies," LaBombard said Monday. "In essence, prior to full FDA approval, the drug will only be available in those hospitals where the overseeing federal agency feels the most impact can be achieved," she said. LaBombard said Onslow Memorial does "not expect to receive remdesivir in the immediate future."
The same was true for Morehead City's Carteret Health Care.
"So far, we have no details and have not heard anything regarding when or if we might receive (the drug)," spokeswoman Michelle Lee said Monday.
During a news briefing last week, Dr. Anthony Fauci, a top leader of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, said that while not a "knock out," the recent study results were "a very important proof of concept," according to USAToday. The tests show "a drug can block this virus."
"This is really quite important," he said. "It is highly significant."
Remdesivir works by impairing the ability of the virus to replicate, John Scott, chairman of pharmacology at the University of Washington School of Medicine, told USAToday.
"You're decreasing the degree of infection so the immune system can fight. It's like taking fuel away from the fire," he said.
Reporter Scott Nunn can be reached at 910-343-2272 or Scott.Nunn@StarNewsOnline.com.