URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006875743
ID : GPHN2020043000040

Date : 2020-04-29 16:47:00
Title : Trudeau open to ‘voluntary’ coronavirus tracking app but says privacy paramount
Ariticle : 
Trudeau open to ‘voluntary’ coronavirus tracking app but says privacy paramount
Scroll back to top of the page
Back
By Amanda Connolly Global News
Posted April 29, 2020 12:47 pm
Updated April 29, 2020 1:28 pm
1:14
Coronavirus outbreak: Trudeau government weighing privacy, data security vs. need for contract tracing
Coronavirus outbreak: Trudeau government weighing privacy, data security vs. need for contract tracing
Smaller font Descrease article font size
-A
Larger font Increase article font size
A+
Copy link
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says while there could be a role for using apps and virtual tracking to trace coronavirus cases in Canada, those measures would likely need to be voluntary to earn public support.
In a daily briefing with journalists outside Rideau Cottage on Wednesday, Trudeau was asked about the possibility of using measures like digital contact tracing and apps to try to limit the spread of the coronavirus as some regions move toward easing lockdown restrictions.
READ MORE: Countries opt for phone tracking amid coronavirus — should Canada?
He said the focus of any new tools would need to be on respecting the privacy of Canadians.
“We have a number of proposals and companies working on different models that might be applicable to Canada but as we move forward on taking decisions, we’re going to keep in mind that Canadians put a very high value on their privacy, on their data security,” he said.
Story continues below advertisement
“We need to make sure we respect that even in a time of emergency measures and significant difficultly.”
Trudeau said countries around the world have different levels of respect for people’s privacy and suggested that measures taken elsewhere won’t necessarily gain support in Canada.
Trending Stories
Coronavirus: Manitoba to implement phased reopening starting May 4
“There are possibilities around using voluntary measures or other things but every step of the way we will hold true to the values that mean so much to Canadians around privacy and security,” he said.
Deputy Chief Public Health Officer Howard Njoo was also asked about the potential for using apps and said it’s a question public health officials are actively considering.
“We are currently looking into these apps and their potential,” he said.
“We are continually looking into these options but we know it’s important to strike a balance between these objectives of public health and the issues relating to privacy, confidentiality of Canadians throughout all provinces and territories.”
He added: “This is a very live issue and we’re continuing to work on it.”
Australia earlier this month rolled out a voluntary coronavirus tracking app as part of its effort to combat the spread of the virus. In other countries, citizens don’t get a choice.
Story continues below advertisement
South Korea amended its laws to let health officials track location data from cellphones, car navigation systems and credit-card systems to keep tabs on its citizens.
Poland requires infected individuals to share photos with geolocation data to prove they are maintaining their quarantine orders.
Singapore uses an app it describes as voluntary but that allows the government to prosecute people who refuse to share their information through it when asked under the Infectious Diseases Act.
The U.K. is also looking into using location data to trace contacts.
Experts have warned though that those measures would not be acceptable to the Canadian public.
More to come.