URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006875840
ID : GPHN2020043000033

Date : 2020-04-29 02:08:00
Title : COVID-19: Why are more men than women dying from the virus? - Ottawa Sun
Ariticle : 
COVID-19: Why are more men than women dying from the virus?
COVID-19: Why are more men than women dying from the virus?
Randy Shore
April 28, 2020 10:08 PM EDT
Filed Under:
Snowbirds to boost morale amid COVID-19 with cross-country tour
While women in B.C. are slightly more likely to test positive for the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 — at about 53 per cent — they are far more likely to survive.
People admitted to intensive care units with COVID-19 symptoms are more likely to have existing health issues such as heart disease, cancer or respiratory illness. They are also overwhelmingly men.
“Somewhere toward 60, 65, 70 per cent of admissions to ICU are men,” said Dr. Bonnie Henry, B.C.’s provincial health officer.
Men 70 years of age and older are also about twice as likely to die from the virus compared to women of the same age, a statistic that is being echoed around the world.
No one is quite sure why.
While women in B.C. are slightly more likely to test positive for the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 — at about 53 per cent — they are far more likely to survive, according to the latest surveillance report from the B.C. Centre for Disease Control.
“The whole question of why men are more likely to have more serious illness than women is one that is being asked around the world,” said Henry. “Some people’s theories are that our immune systems are different, men and women.”
Explanations at this point are mainly speculation.
Women have more adaptable immune systems, which allows them to gestate children without sparking immune responses against the fetus, Henry explained. Men’s immune responses are more aggressive against viruses when they invade the body.
But a Chinese study released in March without peer review found that levels of antibodies to COVID-19 were substantially higher in women than men in the most severe cases.
It may also be that a higher proportion of men in the most vulnerable age groups have existing illnesses and “genetic factors that we just don’t know yet,” Henry said.
It is equally important to look at factors such as immigration status, race and affluence when seeking the roots of differing health outcomes, said Julia Smith, an SFU researcher examining the sex and gender dynamics of the COVID-19 outbreak.
While Canada isn’t collecting such detailed data, jurisdictions that are have found that poverty and race might be an influence.
“I’m disappointed to see that we aren’t collecting data on race and ethnicity along with sex,” she said. “It’s really important to document who is having higher rates of infection and higher rates of ICU admission and higher mortality.”
In the United States, African-Americans are having worse outcomes in some places, she said. “We don’t know if that is happening in Canada, because we don’t have that data.”
“Sex and gender interact to influence everyone’s health outcomes,” according to an article in the British Medical Journal Global Health published late in March.
Past coronavirus outbreaks showed a similar pattern, the authors note.
Being male was also associated with worse clinical outcomes in Hong Kong during the SARS epidemic of 2002-03. Men were also at higher risk of dying due to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).
In early data from Italy, Germany and China, men represented between 62 and 71 per cent of COVID-19 deaths, which was disproportionately high compared to the number of confirmed infections.
The authors point out that the burden of existing health conditions is higher among men than women and that men are more prone to risky behaviour, smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol. In Canada, however, women are more likely to smoke than men.
The global data set is woefully incomplete because many countries have not released gender breakdowns in their statistics.
Infectious disease specialist Dr. Srinivas Murthy cautioned against comparisons with SARS and MERS because the data sets are so much smaller, and it is possible that more men were exposed to those viruses than women.
“Whether there are differences related to hormones or the way something is expressed on the X-chromosome versus the Y-chromosome, it’s unclear,” he said. “There is a lot of biology being investigated to see if there are any specific features of being male that contribute to a worse outcome.”