URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006889972
ID : GPHN2020050200081

Date : 2020-05-01 22:05:00
Title : COVID-19 live updates: Outbreak declared in Prince Albert hospital
Ariticle : 
This is a live file that will be updated throughout the day. For questions or comments on our COVID-19 coverage, you can email citydesk@thestarphoenix.com.
Anyone experiencing symptoms of fever and cough should self-isolate immediately and use the province’s online assessment tool.
Outbreak declared in Prince Albert hospital
An inpatient at Victoria Hospital in Prince Albert has tested positive for COVID-19.
The Saskatchewan Health Authority reported the case early Friday afternoon.
“While there re​mains only one case at the facility and currently no evidence of transmission within the facility, Dr. Khami Chokani, Medical Health Officer, has declared an outbreak at the Victoria Hospital because of the duration of stay in the hospital of the COVID-19 positive patient without knowledge of the patient’s condition,” wrote a health authority spokesperson in a media release.
Article content continued
According to the release, the patient was admitted April 21 for care not related to COVID-19, and had tested negative for the potentially lethal condition caused by the novel coronavirus before being brought to the facility. On April 29, staff determined the patient should be tested again. That test came back positive.
Staff who were in contact with the patient are currently self-isolating, according to the health authority. One patient from the hospital’s intensive care unit has been moved to Saskatoon due to the reduced staff available.
The Victoria Hospital emergency room remains available, and people were urged not to avoid seeking care if they are in need.
Friday’s announcement marks the second outbreak reported in a Saskatchewan hospital this week, following a cluster of cases announced Apr. 29 at a hospital in Lloydminster.
Article content continued
Provincial health authority announces visitation rules at Sask. hospitals
The Saskatchewan Health Authority has released its updated rules to clarify the circumstances under which people can visit loved ones inside hospitals and other health care facilities.
Visits are limited to those that are considered to be for “compassionate” reasons.
“We recognize how difficult this is for patients and families, but this decision is guided by the need to protect our patients and health care teams during COVID-19,” a post on the SHA website says.
Compassionate reasons “may include” visits by immediate family of dying patients and patients awaiting a “major surgery,” according to the post. The SHA failed to respond to messages from The StarPhoenix attempting to clarify what qualifies as a major surgery.
Article content continued
Only one healthy visitor at a time is allowed per patient. In addition to the temperature check and mask, visitors are required to fill out a questionnaire and may need to don additional personal protective equipment (PPE).
Visitors must wash their hands before entering or leaving the facility, and before entering or leaving the patient’s room.
Permitted visitors for compassionate reasons include spouses, common-law spouses, children, stepchildren, parents, grandparents, grandchildren, siblings and support people with whom the patient is close.
—With StarPhoenix files from Phil Tank
Article content continued
Note to readers: We know the speed and volume of coronavirus-related news is overwhelming and a little frightening. To help with that, we will dedicate a Saskatoon StarPhoenix reporter each day to devote their time to synthesizing the most important coronavirus-related news, especially as it relates to life in Saskatoon and Saskatchewan. All our coronavirus-related news can always be found here: thestarphoenix.com/tag/coronavirus.