URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872540
ID : GPHN2020042900226

Date : 2020-04-29 09:55:00
Title : PANDEMIC UPDATE; County tops 1,000 virus deaths; Supervisors: With nearly half of fatalities linked to nursing homes, board vows to beef up safeguards
Ariticle : 
As officials announced that Los Angeles County had reached the heartbreaking milestone of 1,000 coronavirus-related deaths, the Board of Supervisors vowed Tuesday to strengthen protections at the region's nursing homes, where nearly half of those fatalities are linked.
Health officials reported another 59 deaths related to COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, and 597 more confirmed cases, bringing the county's total to 20,976.
"Please know that if you are grieving the loss of loved ones who have died from COVID-19, our
thoughts and prayers are with you, your family, and your friends," Department of Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer said. "We wish you healing and peace."
Faced with a growing number of outbreaks at institutional settings — now up to 4,488 cases at 333 facilities — Ferrer said in a press release Tuesday that the county needed to accelerate the ability to quickly identify and isolate residents and staff both with and without symptoms and quarantine their close contacts.
A total of 462 people have died at institutional settings, mostly at nursing homes, but also at assisted living facilities, treatment centers, correctional institutions and group homes, county numbers show.
"With over 400 deaths from COVID-19 occurring among nursing home residents, the pandemic has amplified the cracks in our society, including the care and protection of people who are older and medically fragile," Ferrer said.
In recent days, L.A. County officials said they were partnering with representatives from the state and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to help suppress outbreaks at nursing homes. Last week it was announced the National Guard would also help at certain facilities.
The county Board of Supervisors on Tuesday unanimously approved a motion by Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas that committed the county to the following actions:
. Facilitating expeditious testing for all staff and residents.
. Issuing standard protocols for skilled nursing homes.
. Requiring adequate staffing levels and sufficient personal protective equipment.
. Banning retaliation against staff for working at multiple facilities, for advocating for personal protective equipment and for refusing to go to work.
. Expediting pending licenses for certified nursing assistants.
. Providing staff with additional pay, including over time as well as paid sick leave.
. Paying facilities an enhanced rate if they care for residents who have tested positive for COVID-19.
. Requiring skilled nursing homes to readmit patients once they are no longer sick.
"We cannot underestimate the risk that COVID-19 poses to skilled nursing home residents, given their age, physical condition and health status," Ridley-Thomas said. "We must also take comprehensive precautions to protect the heroic caregivers who work in these settings and then go home to their families."
Ferrer said the Department of Public Health supported the county's goals.
"We share Supervisor Ridley-Thomas' concern for this vulnerable population, which is being disproportionately impacted by COVID-19," Ferrer said. "We appreciate the board's efforts to put measures in place ensuring that essential staff at skilled nursing facilities are properly trained and equipped with the protective equipment they need to remain safe and support residents who are in great need of continued care."
The midday county report did not include updated counts for Pasadena and Long Beach, which operate their own health departments.
Long Beach officials reported another two deaths, raising the city's death toll to 33. Long Beach also reported 20 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of cases identified in the city to 602.
Pasadena reported 21 new cases (383 total) and two additional deaths (36 total). All of Pasadena's fatal coronavirus cases had involved someone who lived or worked at an elder care facility until Monday, when city officials reported the deaths of two residents who weren't residents or employees at a long-term care facility.
Roughly 92% of those who have died from COVID-19 in L.A. County had underlying health conditions.
Among the countywide deaths reported Tuesday, 36 people were over the age of 65, 16 were between the ages of 41 and 65, and one person was between the ages of 18 and 40 years old.
Forty-two people had underlying health conditions, including 28 people over the age of 65 years old, 13 between the ages of 41 and 65 years old, and one person between the ages of 18 and 40 years old. Two deaths were reported by the city of Long Beach and four deaths by the city of Pasadena.
Out of all those who have died so far, information about race and ethnicity is available for 98% of cases. While the county has been reporting the prevalence of the virus by race and ethnicity, officials promised a more comprehensive report soon. Approximately 37% of deaths occurred among Latino residents, 29% among whites, 18% among Asians, 14% among African Americans, 1% among Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islanders, and 1% among residents identifying with other races.
African Americans, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and people living in communities with high levels of poverty continued to have the highest rate of death per 100,000 people for COVID-19 when compared with other groups.
As of Tuesday, 21% who tested positive for COVID-19 have been hospitalized at some point during their illness. Testing capacity continues to increase in L.A. County, with testing results available for over 133,000 individuals and 14% of people testing positive.
drosenfeld@scng.com