URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892512
ID : GPHN2020050200149

Date : 2020-05-01 08:25:00
Title : Carroll County sees spike in numbers again
Ariticle : 
Carroll County has seen another spike in its cases. As of Friday, the Mississippi Department of Health reported that Carroll County had 58 cases. Seventeen of those cases were blacks, 12 of those cases were whites, and 29 of those cases are currently under investigation. There has been one death in the county due to COVID-19.
The MSDH is reporting that two patients have tested positive at a long-term care facility in Carroll County. Friday afternoon, Carroll County Emergency Management and Civil Defense Director Ken Strachan confirmed the cases were at Vaiden Community Living Center.
"I talked with Mississippi State Department of Health officials Friday morning, and they confirmed there is an outbreak of the coronavirus at the Vaiden Community Living Center, the MSDH is investigating, and their website will be updated as more results are available," Strachan said.
In less than a week, Carroll County's number of positive cases increased by 43 cases since last Saturday. "Carroll County has experienced an increase from fifteen confirmed cases last Saturday to Friday for a total of 58. More cases have been detected through testing, as is reflected in the statewide totals."
Monday, Strachan reported the county's number of positive cases jumped from 15 cases to 20 in 48 hours. Tuesday, Carroll County reported 22 with two cases at Vaiden Community Living Center. Wednesday, Carroll County's numbers jumped again to 25 cases, Thursday, Carroll jumped to 38 cases, and Friday, Carroll County reported 58 positive cases of coronavirus.
He said the state is testing now for people without fever, without symptoms and could have COVID-19 and for those who have been exposed to the virus.
"This helps with identifying these cases and therefore isolating that will be important in containing the spread of the coronavirus," Strachan said.
He told supervisors Monday that if the number of cases in Carroll County could be kept down, the hospitalizations and death could be contained as well.
He said Supervisors signed a declaration of emergency back in March and have worked to get needed personal protective equipment supplies to county and city offices, first responders, law enforcement, the Vaiden Community Living Center, and the Carroll-Montgomery Regional Correctional facility.
"Public health is the number one priority, following social distancing is very important, and keeping in mind the coronavirus is harder on people with underlying health conditions," Strachan said.
For more on this story, check for updates on our website and in next Thursday's edition of The Conservative.