URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006882965
ID : GPHN2020050100045

Date : 2020-04-30 17:41:00
Title : Businessman Martín Varsavsky on quarantine in Argentina: "It's futilely destroying the economy, it should end now"
Ariticle : 
The successful businessman Martín Varsavsky, founder of technology companies in Argentina and Spain, asked the Argentine government to end quarantine, because he felt that he will destroy the economy uselessly.
He put it this way through his Twitter account: "Destroying the economy uselessly. All because of a virus that for people under 65 is no worse than a normal flu. This is a senacid virus; 92% of the dead are over 65 years old. Argentina should end quarantine now and protect the elders."
This is a senacid virus; 92% of the dead are over 65 years old. Argentina should end quarantine now and protect the elderly
Varsavksy relied on data from the argentine Ministry of Health's press conference on Thursday morning, where they presented the usual report of the data, where 215 people were reported to be deceased, with an average age of 73 years and a mortality rate of 4.7 per million inhabitants.
After making his opinion known on the social network, the entrepreneur spoke to Infobae and pointed out his proposals so that Argentina can leave quarantine and that the economy is reactivated, maintaining isolation for the elderly and social estrangement measures for the rest of the population.
"Argentina doesn't have to lock the elders up with the police. It's not a matter of fining people. Now the population already knows what the dangers of COVID-19 are. My recommendation is to put guidelines, as a chain of solidarity with the elderly so that they do not have to go to the pharmacies or the supermarket. But they can go out to the parks without being in touch with other people, with specific times for adults," the entrepreneur suggested.
"Most Argentines do not live in Buenos Aires. Progress is being made in Europe to different rules that adapt to the reality of each city," he added. Among his recommendations, Varsavksy noted that social estrangement measures should be established for the rest of the population, but without the need to close everything, and avoiding meetings of more than 50 people or the use of public transport. And, of course, avoid large concentrations, football or travel by subway.
In Europe they are realizing that the disease is not the enemy it was thought to be. You have to trust people more
"In Europe they are realizing that the disease is not the enemy it was thought to be. You have to trust people more. At first you didn't have that much awareness, but now you do. There are countries where trades are reopening and a lot of people don't go because there's fear," he said. Another key issue for the entrepreneur is that schools remain open, citing the examples of Sweden, Germany, Norway, Denmark and France, which will reopen them on 11 May.
"People are programmed to think of this as a normal flu, where kids are vectors of contagion, but in COVID-19 it's not like that. Switzerland took a rather risky step and is that children under the age of 10 can hug their grandparents," he said. The entrepreneur is the father of seven children, of whom the youngest are between 6 and 13 years old.
Varsavsky proposes isolation for seniors and social estrangement for the rest of the populationIn Madrid, where he currently resides, Varsavsky created a self-assessment appwhich served to decongest emergency phone lines and provide people with symptoms with a much more agile response. For this development, he constantly analyzes public and curved data on how the pandemic is progressing in Spain—and also in Argentina and other countries around the world—and was in contact with leaders from several countries, including French President Emmanuel Macron.
In Argentina, he had conversations with Horacio Rodríguez Larreta, whom he approached his idea of the solidarity chain to assist the elders and who do not have to leave their homes. "COVID-19 discriminates a lot by age. And there's a very curious coincidence, because people die from the age they retire. In the 1918 pandemic, the average age of death was 28," he recalled.
There are countries where shops are reopening and a lot of people don't go because there's fear
Varsavsky takes as an example the case of the Israeli government, which had a scoring quarantine system, which is granted through an algorithm. People add up to more points by age and for at-risk illnesses. In this way, quarantine is released for people according to their score.
The entrepreneur considers, on the other hand, that Spain is committing suicide, after the fact that the Spanish economy sank by 5.2% by the coronavirus, the largest fall in almost a century, was known. That's why he called for a reopening of the socially estranged economy.
"Quarantine doesn't cure, it only delays contagion so that the health system has capacity until we get in touch. It now has capacity and we are all clear about the danger COVID-19 poses," he said of Spain and asked his government to put an end to the "house arrest" it imposed.
I kept reading:
Martin Varsavsky: "If we maintain total isolation, there is going to be an economic disaster and people are going to die of other things"
Silvia Torres Carbonell of the IAE: "We are seeing the tip of the iceberg and I am concerned about the economic pandemic"