URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006895993
ID : GPHN2020050300052

Date : 2020-05-02 21:49:00
Title : News: COVID-19 Outbreak Declared at Hogarth Riverview Manor. "In recent testing, one staff member was found to be positive for COVID-19. At this time, no residents or other staff members have been identified as having symptoms." Read more:
Ariticle : 
COVID-19 Outbreak Declared at Hogarth Riverview Manor
COVID-19 Outbreak Declared at Hogarth Riverview Manor
May 2, 2020 - The Thunder Bay District Health Unit (TBDHU) and St. Joseph’s Care Group confirm that an outbreak has been declared at Hogarth Riverview Manor (HRM), fourth floor, in Thunder Bay.
In recent testing, one staff member was found to be positive for COVID-19. At this time, no residents or other staff members have been identified as having symptoms.
Consistent with provincial guidelines, the outbreak declaration for COVID-19 in a long-term care home is made when one staff or resident is found to be positive for COVID-19. This low threshold for declaring an outbreak ensures that outbreak management measures, including increased infection and control practices, can be put in place swiftly to contain any further spread.
Prior to the outbreak, significant measures had already been put in place by HRM to reduce the likelihood of transmission of the virus in the facility.
TBDHU and St. Joseph’s Care Group will continue to collaborate on the ongoing investigation and management of this outbreak.
“Residents of long-term care homes are a particularly vulnerable group when it comes to COVID-19. It is important that we act swiftly when a resident or staff has symptoms or has a positive test as in this case,” said Dr. Janet DeMille, Medical Officer of Health. “I am reassured that many measures were already in place and appropriate precautions were taken to reduce the likelihood of virus spreading.”
“Our priority is to make sure that we do everything possible to keep our residents and staff safe,” said Tracy Buckler, President & CEO of St. Joseph’s Care Group. “We are well- prepared and confident that the precautionary measures we have put in place will do what they are intended to do, which is to prevent transmission of the virus.”
Actions taken to date:
As the facility cares for a high-risk population, Hogarth Riverview Manor has proactive policies and evidence-based practices in place to prevent any potential spread of infection. As part of precautionary measures with any respiratory outbreak in a long-term care home, residents on the fourth floor are in isolation, in their own rooms, until further notice. Other measures in place include:
Staff and residents follow physical distancing guidelines.
Group activities are discontinued.