URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006884488
ID : GPHN2020050100176

Date : 2020-04-30 20:00:00
Title : Two COVID-19 outbreaks at long-term care homes in Timiskaming - BayToday
Ariticle : 
Two COVID-19 outbreaks at long-term care homes in Timiskaming
All affected residents are in isolation and are medically stable
By: Jeff Turl
Tube containing a swab sample that has tested positive for COVID-19.
The Timiskaming Health Unit confirmed today that two COVID-19 outbreaks have been declared at long term care homes in the district of Timiskaming.
Two residents of the Northview Nursing Home in Englehart have been confirmed positive, while the Temiskaming Lodge has one resident and three staff members who have tested positive.
"All affected residents are in isolation and are medically stable," says a news release. "Positive staff members have been notified and are in self-isolation."
The Timiskaming Health Unit, along with local hospitals and Ontario Health, are working closely with the two facilities to ensure all measures are in place to protect residents and staff according to the release.
Investigations regarding these cases continue with contact tracing, in order to further reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
Dr. Glenn Corneil, Acting Medical Officer of Health for the Timiskaming district said, “Having had previous cases of COVID-19 transmitted through community spread we knew the possibility of more cases existed. Even if people have mild symptoms the risk of transmission needs to be taken very seriously, and everyone needs to continue to follow all recommended public health measures to protect themselves and others.”
Ministry direction requires an outbreak be declared with a single laboratory-confirmed case in a resident or staff member. Earlier this week the Ontario government launched a province-wide surveillance testing initiative for all long term care home residents and staff, including asymptomatic people.
There have been 12 positive cases, not including today's, in Timiskaming District. Eleven have been resolved and one is in self-isolation.
 
About the Author: Jeff Turl
Jeff is a veteran of the news biz. He's spent a lengthy career in TV, radio, print and online, covering both news and sports. He enjoys free time riding motorcycles and spoiling grandchildren.
This has been shared 0 times
0