URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006881731
ID : GPHN2020050100002

Date : 2020-04-28 12:30:00
Title : New research suggests 'COVID toes' is a symptom of coronavirus in kids - The Post Millennial
Ariticle : 
Canadian News
New research suggests 'COVID toes' is a symptom of coronavirus in kids
Bluish-red and purple lesions found on toes and fingers are possibly symptoms of a COVID-19 infection, the condition is mostly found in children.
28th April 2020
2 mins reading
A sign of coronavirus may be showing in your child's feet or hands, according to the Canadian Paediatric Surveillance Program (CPSP). The CPSP has cautioned doctors that and parents to watch for skin changes on those areas, suggesting that they may be signs of an infection, according to CTV News .
Bluish-red and purple lesions found on toes and fingers are possibly symptoms of a COVID-19 infection, the condition is mostly found in children and has been given the nick name "COVID toes."
Although the evidence has yet to be peer-reviewed, a public health alert has been issued to paediatricians to watch for such symptoms. Though the lesions may be present, the children may be otherwise asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms.
If the skin lesions are detected, the CPSP recommends that the clinicians proceed with a test for COVID-19. This protocol will help track the spread of the infection and prompt self-isolation for patients and their close contacts.
The lesions have a similar appearance to that of pernio, or what is more often called frostbite, according to Dr. Ebbin Lautenbach, chief of infectious disease at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine.
These lesions can hurt or feel hot when touched. They are most commonly found on the pads of toes and sometimes the upper side of the foot.
The CPSP has asked doctors to report any cases of COVID-19 found in a child that has skin lesions as part of the symptoms.
An Italian doctor was the first to make the connection between the skin lesions and COVID-19 back in March, after he noticed 18 out of the 88 patients being studied, had some form of skin problem.
The American Academy of Dermatology have asked that all physicians and members worldwide report dermatology symptoms to their registry , so they can analyze the different ways that skin is affected by COVID-19.
Additional registries has been opened up in Spain and France to track the same conditions.
So far skin conditions are not on the list of known symptoms of COVID-19 according to the World Health Organization (WHO) however, they are going to monitor the research of these experts closely as they continue to study the co-relation.