URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006878061
ID : GPHN2020043000109

Date : 2020-04-30 03:34:00
Title : So far, only one test in Russia can determine COVID-19 antibody concentration - official
Ariticle : 
A test kit for novel coronavirus antibodies, designed by the Vector center, is the only product of its kind in Russia that shows not only the presence of antibodies, but also their concentration, the chief of Russia’s sanitary watchdog, Anna Popova, said on Wednesday.
"As far assessing the population’s immunity is concerned, Russia has instruments for the purpose. A testing kit, designed by Vektor, has been registered for use in Russia. It is the only kit that gives us quantitative data. In other words, it helps us to better understand this immunity and how strong it is," she said in a Rossiya-24 TV channel broadcast.
Other testing kits are capable of only detecting the presence of antibodies, Popova added.
Russia’s chief sanitary official said she saw no need so far to make those testing kits publicly available.
However, in her opinion, a large-scale study should be carried out in Russia to assess whether those who had recovered - including those who had the asymptomatic form of the disease - are immune to it and for how long.
"Holding population studies if very important, given that nearly half of all cases detected in Russia are asymptomatic. We need to answer questions of how immunity is formed depending on the form of the disease, how strong it is and how long it would last. All those questions need to be answered to protect the population and prevent our people from falling ill," she said.
According to present-day data, about 45-47% from the general number of those infected have had the asymptomatic form of novel coronavirus.
On March 11, 2020, the WHO declared the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic. According to the latest statistics, over 3,100,000 people have been infected worldwide and more than 218,000 deaths have been reported.
To date, a total of 99,399 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Russia, with 10,286 patients having recovered from the virus. Russia’s latest data indicates 972 fatalities nationwide. Earlier, the Russian government set up an Internet hotline to keep the public updated on the coronavirus situation.