URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006890020
ID : GPHN2020050200074

Date : 2020-05-02 22:15:00
Title : As cool sets in, 'get tested' for virus the strong message
Ariticle : 
Local and state health authorities are strongly urging anyone with flu-like symptoms to get tested for COVID-19.
As single-degree daytime temperatures set in for the first time this year on the Border, both Albury Wodonga Health and NSW Chief Health Officer Dr Kerry Chant have reiterated the importance of getting tested.
AWH Director of Pandemic Response Sally Squire said increased testing for COVID-19 remains part of an overall strategy aiming to prevent the spread of the virus and allow governments to consider easing restrictions.
"We encourage the community to continue to support the testing program to ensure we have the best possible picture of any spread of COVID-19 in the community," she said.
"Even if your symptoms are mild, you should seek testing with your GP or with Albury Wodonga Health.
"Testing at the Wodonga clinic and of symptomatic inpatients at our hospitals is ongoing.
"COVID-19 testing is available for anyone with a fever or chills in the absence of an alternative diagnosis or anyone with an acute respiratory infection characterised by cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, runny nose or loss of the sense of smell."
Of 10 people who have tested positive for the virus through Albury Wodonga Health, nine are recovered while one remains in self-isolation at home
The Albury Wodonga Clinic has conducted 2641 screening calls to date and 1618 patients tested have been tested.
In NSW, there were nine cases reported to 8pm Thursday, three of which were associated with a known cluster or contact with a confirmed case.
Four were contracted through community transmission.
Dr Chant said people could expect the numbers around community transmission to "fluctuate".
IN OTHER NEWS:
Virus jobs drive draws out health professionals 2020 Virtual Winter Solstice has potential to connect with global audience Red Shield Appeal Digital Doorknock seeks 10,000 collectors "There are areas of the state where there is community transmission," she said.
"What is critical is we sustain these high levels of testing, we're not missing anyone.
"However mild your symptoms - a sore throat, a scratchy throat, a bit of a fever, runny nose, temperature, cough - please come forward and get tested.
"There will be occasions where we're testing people more broadly - those without symptoms - but that will be generally in response to a known case where we're trying to do some ring-fencing to identify the source."
Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos was among the people who used expanded testing options in Victoria, revealing on Twitter she was tested.
"For a couple of days, I have felt unwell, with mild cold/flu symptoms, so yesterday I went & got tested for #COVID19. Like many Victorians, I queued up in my car at Northlands - one of our new testing sites. The good news is I've received a negative result," she said.
"When we said we wanted to do 100,000 tests over the next two weeks I didn't think I'd be one of them. I urge everyone - even if you have mild symptoms, please go & get tested."
The total number of coronavirus cases in Victoria is 1,364 - an increase of three since yesterday.
None of those new cases are in regional Victoria; the tally remains at 217.
Aside from people with respiratory symptoms, AWH also recommends testing for those people:
With new onset of other clinical symptoms consistent with COVID-19 (headache, muscle pain, stuffy nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea) and who are close contacts of a confirmed case of COVID-19 or who have returned from overseas in the past 14 days Who are healthcare or aged care workers. Our COVID-19 news articles relating to public health and safety are free for anyone to access. However, we depend on subscription revenue to support our journalism. If you are able, please subscribe here. If you are already a subscriber, thank you for your support.