URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006879343
ID : GPHN2020043000126

Date : 2020-04-30 04:46:00
Title : The topics of the covid-19 conference in Mexico on April 29
Ariticle : 
In Mexico the death toll from SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus increased to 732, while confirmed cases rose to 17 thousand 799, an increase of 6 percent, compared to Tuesday, April 28, said the director general of Epidemiology, José Luis Alomía.
At wednesday's evening conference, the official disclosed that there are 152 suspicious deaths waiting to confirm whether it was covid-19, while Mexico City remains the entity with the highest death toll, followed by Baja California, the State of Mexico, Sinaloa, Tabasco and Quintana Roo.
m{797665}Is there a medicine against coronavirus? Does plasma treatment of recovered patients work, were some of the topics at the conference attended by health secretary Jorge Alcocer to explain how the virus attacks the body.
No anti-covid-19 drug effectiveness has been demonstratedHealth Secretary Jorge Alcocer explained that so far there are several drugs in the coronavirus testing phase, but the truth is that none of them have been shown to be effective and safe against the virus.
Therefore, he said that there was insufficient data to promote or discourage the use of chloroquine, remdesivir or other medicines.
About why there is no specific drug against coronavirus, the official mentioned that it is because so far it has not been directly located what neutralizes the virus and thus be able to remove it early.
CdMx, BC and Edomex, with more occupied beds for critical patientsThe general director of Epidemiology, José Luis Alomía, reported that nationally, Mexico City, Baja California and the State of Mexico have the highest number of occupied beds for critical patients with 60, 44 and 41 percent, respectively.
Meanwhile, with regard to beds for general care of patients with covid-19 of 13 thousand 744 that were available, just over 4 thousand are occupied.
They present guidance for the health protection of people with disabilitiesThe guide contains basic measures to be implemented to protect the health of persons with disabilities from the health emergency by coronavirus in the country, which is currently in phase 3.
The Director General of Health Promotion, Ricardo Cortés Alcalá, indicated that among the measures is the enablement of a line by WhatsApp so that translators of the sign system can transmit to medical staff the feelings of patients.
Plasma treatment could cover lack of covid-19 vaccineThe Secretary of Health acknowledged that plasma treatment of patients recovered from the disease could cover the lack of a vaccine against the virus, although this requires knowing "the fineness" of how the immune response of the vaccine donors is doing.
"Not all individuals who suffer the action of the virus handle it the same way, their immune system, for different reasons and more when biological limitations are added, have to keep an eye on another series of things and these are the ones that make in some individuals not enough the answer," he said.VJCM