URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006877045
ID : GPHN2020043000095

Date : 2020-04-28 01:10:00
Title : Experts fear overdoses could increase
Ariticle : 
It was the epidemic before the pandemic. With the novel coronavirus continuing its spread, Minneapolis-area drug and addiction experts say they fear that overdose rates will skyrocket as people become more isolated and treatment centers with limited resources are forced to make decisions about which patients to treat and when. “We can expect to see more overdoses and more overdose deaths,” said Hennepin County opioid response coordinator Julie Bauch. “We do not expect to see fentanyl and other heroin analogues going anywhere.” She worries that addiction rates will rise with COVID-19 shuttering entire industries and putting millions of Americans out of work, even as officials enact social control measures to keep people at home and slow the spread of the virus. According to police statistics, the number of drug-related deaths in Minneapolis through April 19 is roughly the same as the same time last year.
 But overall overdose calls have gone up roughly 8%, to 437 from 404 in 2019, which ended the year with 1,499 suspected overdoses — the highest levels in at least the past dozen years. Bauch, a nurse by training, suspects those numbers will only go up in the coming months. Some people dealing with substance abuse are being turned away from hospitals and clinics already suffering from a shortage of beds in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, while others are avoiding medical settings altogether out of fear of getting infected, she said. Dr. Brian Grahan said that he expects more people will seek out opioid highs to escape feelings of isolation and financial stress from lost jobs. “So that’s the best feeling to have right now, when there’s so much uncertainty and anxiety, people just want to feel wrapped up,” said Grahan, an addiction-medicine physician at HCMC. “But interestingly you don’t see that much of an increase in meth and cocaine [use] because it doesn’t really help that feeling.” At the same time, he said, people in recovery rely on human contact, which gets tricky under social distancing rules. Support groups like Alcoholics Anonymous have started conducting meetings by phone or videoconferencing. Even the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation has turned to online services, offering clients 12 hours of weekly drug and alcohol recovery group therapy in the seven states where it has locations. Local health officials say that parts of Minneapolis are feeling the full brunt of the opioid epidemic that ravaged parts of New England and Appalachia for much of the past decade. While methamphetamine and cocaine use have risen, opiates like heroin and its deadlier cousin, fentanyl, still account for most drug deaths in the city, officials say. In recent weeks, authorities have noticed a steady increase in intravenous heroin use, raising the risk of disease outbreaks. Authorities have also seen a rise in calls for suspected overdoses of drugs like PCP and LSD, which can induce vivid hallucinations. Lorena Pinto, vice president of programs at the Family Partnership, a Minneapolis nonprofit, said that as fewer drug outreach workers visit the hardest-hit communities, “we could actually be looking at increased deaths.” Most substance abusers are already on shaky ground, Pinto says, with many facing the overlapping issues of mental health and homelessness that are likely to grow as the pandemic spreads. “We have to come up with better solutions that are still humane for everybody,” she said. “And stuffing people into shelters and increasing high capacity is not safe — they will turn to the streets, because for them that does feel safe.” Grahan, the HCMC doctor, said that it’s too soon to say how addiction rates will be affected by the COVID-19 crisis, which he says is unlike any natural disaster, or even the financial crisis of 2008. But, he added, researchers have found that stressful times can trigger relapses in drug users, who see themselves losing control of their lives. “The psychosocial consequences of the treatment for COVID are exacerbating a lot of other health issues,” said Grahan, pointing to research that says substance abuse is often preceded by mental health issues. “For people in recovery it’s really hard to stay out in situations like this, when you don’t have a really hard support network.” Stephanie Devich, a harm-reduction specialist at Valhalla Place, a treatment center in Brooklyn Park, said that the uncertain times will attract many new users with less experience in dealing with drugs and alcohol. “The younger, naive user doesn’t know things that keep us safer,” Devich said. Libor Jany • 612-673-4064 Twitter: @StribJany RISE IN OVERDOSES Minneapolis police continue to see a rise in overdoses. Overdose call for service (Year-to-date, Jan. 1-April 19) 2019: 404 2020: 437 Source: Minneapolis Police Department