URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006880566
ID : GPHN2020043000157

Date : 2020-04-30 09:45:00
Title : Boris Johnson's fiancée Carrie gave birth to a boy; Queen sends a private message of good wishes
Ariticle : 
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's fiancée, Carrie Symonds, gave birth to a baby boy at a London hospital on Wednesday, slightly earlier than had been expected. Symonds, 32, had said previously that their baby was due in the early summer. Johnson, 55, whose country is facing its worst health crisis since the 1918 influenza outbreak, will take a short period of paternity leave later in the year.
"The Prime Minister and Ms Symonds are thrilled to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at a London hospital earlier this morning," the couple's spokeswoman said. "Both mother and baby are doing very well.
Johnson was present at the birth, the prime minister's spokesman said later. There was no announcement of a name. Queen Elizabeth had sent a private message of good wishes to the couple, Buckingham Palace said.
The new arrival tops a tumultuous month for Johnson. He returned to work on Monday after recuperating from COVID-19, which had left him gravely ill in intensive care at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak.
Symonds, a former public relations executive, also had symptoms of the virus but recovered more swiftly.
Johnson's Conservative government has faced criticism for its handling of the coronavirus epidemic and its slow initial response. The country now has one of the world's highest death tolls, with more than 26,000 fatalities.
But he benefited from public sympathy over his hospitalization, and state broadcaster the BBC and other media outlets made the baby's birth the top item on their news bulletins.
"Great to hear Downing Street is getting a new resident," said Johnson's finance minister, Rishi Sunak.
Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer said: "Wonderful news. Many congratulations to Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds."
England's chief midwife also joined in the congratulations. "I am incredibly proud of the NHS maternity team who looked after them," said Jacqueline Dunkley-Bent, the chief midwifery officer for England.
Symonds and Johnson have been living together in Downing Street since he became prime minister in July. They announced in February they were expecting their first child and that they were engaged to be married.
Johnson, once dubbed "Bonking Boris" by Britain's tabloid media, has a complicated private life.
Johnson's previous marriage was to Marina Wheeler, a lawyer. They had four children together but announced in September 2018 that they had separated. They divorced earlier this year.
"The Prime Minister and Ms Symonds are thrilled to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at a London hospital," the couple's spokeswoman said