URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006904967
ID : GPHN2020050500011

Date : 2020-05-04 14:33:00
Title : China 'covered up coronavirus outbreak to hoard medical supplies', US claims
Ariticle : 
US President Donald Trump is looking at ways to punish China for its handling of the new coronavirus, which has killed about 250,000 people worldwide since it emerged late last year
China intentionally hid the severity of the coronavirus from the rest of the world and began stockpiling medical supplies, a US report claims.
It is the latest evidence to point to a cover-up by Beijing over the scale of its Covid-19 outbreak and its handling of the emerging crisis.
Tensions between the US and China are on the verge of escalating as the Trump administration looks at ways to punish Beijing for the pandemic which has killed about 250,000 people worldwide, including more than 68,000 in the US.
A report prepared by the Department of Homeland Security said the Chinese government deliberately misled the international community as it stockpiled imports and decreased exports.
Have you been affected by coronavirus Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.
A source told CNN the report states: "China likely cut its exports of medical supplies prior to its January WHO World Health Organisation notification that Covid-19 is a contagion."
Sources told the broadcaster that Donald Trump's administration was exploring the possibility of sanctions, cancelling US debt obligations and drafting new trade policies to hit back at China.
The virus emerged late last year as the first patients were admitted to hospitals in the city of Wuhan.
The exact origin of the new strain of coronavirus is not known.
Scientists around the world have said it was not man-made and it most likely originated in bats before being passed from an animal to a human.
Trump keeps stirring up a conspiracy theory that the outbreak started in a lab in Wuhan but has not provided any evidence to back it up.
The lab and Chinese authorities have denied the claim, and Trump's own Office of the Director of National Intelligence has ruled out the virus being man-made.
The US president has stepped up attacks on China as he seeks a second term in the White House in this November's election.
His administration is "turbocharging" an initiative to remove global industrial supply chains from China while weighing new tariffs, officials familiar with US planning told Reuters.
Keith Krach, undersecretary for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment at the US State Department, said: "We've been working on [reducing the reliance of our supply chains in China] over the last few years but we are now turbo-charging that initiative.
"I think it is essential to understand where the critical areas are and where critical bottlenecks exist."
Another senior official said: "This moment is a perfect storm; the pandemic has crystallised all the worries that people have had about doing business with China.
"All the money that people think they made by making deals with China before, now they've been eclipsed many fold by the economic damage [from coronavirus]."
A spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson said there were questions to be answered about the "origin" of the coronavirus pandemic, following claims by the US about China's role in the spread of the virus.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said there is "a significant amount of evidence that this came from that laboratory in Wuhan", the Chinese city at the centre of the initial outbreak.
But the US has not revealed any of that evidence.
Mr Johnson's spokesman said: "I'm not going to comment on intelligence matters."
But he added: "Clearly there are questions that need to be answered about the origin and spread of the virus, not least so we can ensure we are better prepared for future global pandemics."