URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868048
ID : GPHN2020042900072

Date : 2020-04-28 20:19:00
Title : A Double Risk: On the Coronavirus Front Line, and Older; Hospitals scrambling to respond to the coronavirus outbreak need the help of experienced staffers, but the risks to older workers are greater
Ariticle : 
A veteran emergency-medicine physician, James Aiken stands gown-to-gown with the residents he teaches as they perform intubations, risking exposure from patients that may have Covid-19.
At 67 years old, Dr. Aiken is at higher risk if he contracts the disease. "I'm healthy; I do not take any medicines," says Dr. Aiken, an associate professor of emergency medicine and public health at LSU Health Sciences Center in New Orleans. "That doesn't take away from me being 67."
Hospitals scrambling to respond to the coronavirus outbreak need all the help they can get, especially from experienced staffers like Dr. Aiken. But older workers also face a greater possibility of complications if they contract the disease, creating a conundrum for hospitals and employees alike.
There are no comprehensive national guidelines on how hospitals should handle high-risk workers, which include seniors as well as people of any age with conditions like diabetes, heart disease or high blood pressure. That leaves it up to individual hospital groups and employees to navigate the challenges. 
'I'm healthy; I do not take any medicines," says Dr. Aiken. 'That doesn't take away from me being 67.' PHOTO: Annie Flanagan for The Wall Street Journal
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention doesn't have a running tally of how many health care workers are infected, but it did do a survey recently that provided a snapshot of the virus's impact. Among more than 9,000 U.S. health-care workers who contracted Covid-19, the median age was 42 years old. Among 27 deaths, 10 were among employees 65 and older, and eight were people between 55 and 64 years old. About half of ICU admissions were in workers 55 and older.
The report concluded that older health care employees and people with underlying conditions "should consider consulting with their health care provider and employee health program to better understand and manage their risks regarding Covid-19."
Hospitals have taken varying approaches. Some, like the University of Maryland Medical System, have policies where at-risk employees—based on medical conditions or pregnancy—can request a reasonable accommodation and be excused from caring for Covid-19 patients. Excusal from caring for Covid-19 patients isn't based on age alone.
Others, like Mount Sinai Health System in New York City, manage employees on a case-by-case basis. "There's no specific age cutoff, there is no specific disease," says David Reich, president of the hospital system. For an employee with cancer or who is immunocompromised, it's fairly obvious they wouldn't be in a front-line position with Covid-19 patients, he says. "For others it's more of a gray zone," says Dr. Reich.
NYU Langone Health in New York City says employees can request and be granted exemptions from working directly with Covid-19 patients. Criteria include, but aren't limited to, being pregnant, 65 and older, or having certain immunosuppressed conditions.
Clyde W. Yancy, chief of cardiology at Northwestern Medicine in Chicago, is 62. Dr. Yancy has hypertension, which he manages with lifestyle modifications. "The bigger risk for me was being over the age of 60," he says.
He sees older physicians like himself taking on more of the telemedicine responsibilities. As chief of cardiology, he and other leaders identified the critical mass of cardiologists they needed in the ICU and instructed everyone else to work from home.
He still works in the hospital daily because of his leadership responsibilities, but consults with patients via telemedicine rather than in person. "A number of my patients have come in with Covid-19," says Dr. Yancy.
Rohan Khera, a cardiology fellow at the UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, and his team analyzed national data of licensed physicians and found that roughly one-quarter of physicians are over 64 years old and one-third are over 59. California and New York had the highest number of older physicians. He says the data, released in preprint form, was approved to be published in a journal soon.
"There's no standard universal policy," says Dr. Khera. "There is a move toward having older physicians either do things like telemedicine or staffing non-Covid-19 patients and limiting the Covid units to the relatively younger physician groups."
The challenge is doing that in hospitals that are over capacity and face shortages of personal protective equipment.
Share Your Thoughts
How do you think older workers should navigate the risks of working on the front lines? Join the discussion below.
Douglas Staiger, an economics professor at Dartmouth College, was a co-author of an editorial published in JAMA March 30. Using U.S. Census Bureau American Community Survey data from 2014 to 2018, the authors noted that an estimated 19% of registered nurses in hospitals are 55 to 64 years old, while 3% are 65 or older. An estimated 20% of physicians are 55 to 64 years old and 9% are 65 or older.
"I think the issue is, are there ways where hospitals can effectively use these older clinicians but keep them at lower risk," says Dr. Staiger.
One option is having older clinicians staff areas dedicated to non-Covid patients. "It's not as safe as doing telemedicine but it does reduce risk compared to actually being the hands-on provider for the Covid floors," he notes.
Some older physicians say they feel a responsibility to help during a pandemic. Dr. Aiken says he has overseen five to eight intubations in a shift, which entails putting the sickest Covid-19 patients on ventilators so they can breathe.
The risk of getting the virus is never far from his mind. "Certainly a number of people who I went to medical school with are part of this," he says. "I don't know of anybody who is simply not coming to work. In my circle everybody is doing what they did pre-pandemic."
LSU has a new emergency-medicine telehealth clinic to counsel patients with questions about Covid-19. Providers uncomfortable having direct contact with Covid-19 patients have the option of doing that.
But Dr. Aiken is continuing his normal work in the ER. "I think it just comes down to comfort level and quite frankly we love what we do," says Dr. Aiken. "A lot of us went through the Katrina experience together. There's a lot of history in this program."
He takes precautions at home. He leaves his shoes at the front door, enters the house through the back stairs, and throws his scrubs into the washing machine.
He and his wife are social distancing as best as they can. They use different bathrooms. He sleeps in a bedroom downstairs. At meal time they sit across from each other.
"As this continues, my wife and I will continually reassess what I'm doing, but I've been at this for a while, so I'd like to think I'm good at what I do and I think I have something to offer," he says.
Write to Sumathi Reddy at sumathi.reddy@wsj.com