URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006889080
ID : GPHN2020050200049

Date : 2020-05-01 04:02:00
Title : Calls for Hamilton paramedics down during COVID-19 pandemic, says chief - Global News
Ariticle : 
Calls for Hamilton paramedics down during COVID-19 pandemic, says chief
Scroll back to top of the page
Back
By Don Mitchell Global News
Posted April 30, 2020 11:58 pm
Updated May 1, 2020 12:13 am
Hamilton's chief of paramedics says emergency calls in the city are down year over year. .
@HPS_Paramedics
Smaller font Descrease article font size
-A
Larger font Increase article font size
A+
Copy link
Hamilton’s chief of paramedics says the number of ambulance calls, year over year, are down in the city amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
Michael Sanderson says he’s not surprised by the decline in calls during Ontario’s Emergency Measures and Civil Protection Act, but that the number is nine per cent year over year between the beginning of March and the end of April.
“So I kind of expected that we would have a decrease in transports to hospital, but it’s actually really proved out. I’m surprised at the quantum of it right now.” Sanderson told Global News.
View link »
Paramedics are not only seeing a decrease in overall calls but also a decline in potential patients taking rides to the hospital. Sanderson says on average EMS has 49 per cent of its subjects in a call refuse admittance to a hospital.
Story continues below advertisement
Sanderson says that’s an increase of about ten percent year over year when they averaged only 39 per cent refusing transport in 2019.
Previous Video
Next Video
Sanderson says visits connected to motor vehicle accidents, trauma in youth, and alcohol-related incidents are examples of ER categories that are down year over year for March and April.
“The calls for our paramedics where alcohol intoxication was the primary problem is actually down this year as well. So it probably speaks to some of these social activities that aren’t going on.”
Peter Bieling, vice-president of Mental Health and Addictions programs at St. Joseph’s Hospital, also believes less people on the streets is keeping many “from having a certain amount of misadventure.”
Story continues below advertisement
But Bieling believes a degree of fear in potential emergency room visits would also be part of the explanation.
“We don’t want people to put off coming to hospital because we have screening and testing and protective equipment. And, you know, it’s definitely safe to come, but there might be some fear,” said Bieling.
“It’ll take the aftermath of this and some careful research to figure this out.”
View link »
Questions about COVID-19? Here are some things you need to know:
Health officials caution against all international travel. Returning travellers are legally obligated to self-isolate for 14 days, beginning March 26, in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others. Some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self-isolate.
Symptoms  can include fever, cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu. Some people can develop a more severe illness. People most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease. If you develop symptoms,  contact public health authorities .
To  prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve. They also recommend minimizing contact with others, staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out.
Story continues below advertisement