URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006904926
ID : GPHN2020050500014

Date : 2020-05-04 15:17:00
Title : Coronavirus Sweeps Across Brazil, a Land Ill-Equipped to Fight It; Cases and deaths pass China in South American behemoth with dense favelas, little testing and a leader dismissive of the virus
Ariticle : 
In the tiny, stifling home she shared with seven relatives in the Amazon, Maria Portelo de Lima began coughing, started feeling weaker and, over a week, got sicker and sicker.
Her family tried to get the 61-year-old to a hospital in Manaus, a city of 2.2 million in the heart of the rainforest. They were told no ambulances were available or hospital beds free because of a flood of coronavirus patients.
Ms. de Lima died April 26. With so many other Covid-19 victims in the city, it took 30 hours for an ambulance to pick up her body. She was buried in a mass grave, her identity marked by a wooden cross that cost $22.
Covid-19, which has focused its fury most heavily on wealthier countries, now is hammering Brazil. Brazil has just passed China, the origin of the pandemic, both in confirmed cases, 101,147, and in deaths, 7,025, becoming the hardest-hit country in the developing world.
Unlike in China, which corralled the virus through stern restrictions, things in Latin America's largest country are expected to get much worse. Infections are rising by more than 5,000 a day and deaths by nearly 500.
There is so little testing in Brazil that its real number of Covid-19 infections might be far higher than the official figure. One university study has estimated the total to date at higher than the U.S.'s world-leading 1.19 million.
The surge comes as Brazil's president, an outspoken coronavirus skeptic, quarrels with state governors and infectious-disease experts who say his government should enact a national stay-at-home rule, as most of its Latin America neighbors have. Instead, President Jair Bolsonaro recently fired his health minister, who had urged stringent social isolation measures.
Mr. Bolsonaro has called the coronavirus a "little flu'' and said that athletes such as himself were immune. He wades into crowds, shaking hands and urging that businesses closed by state governors reopen to save the economy.
Asked by a reporter last week about Brazil's having topped China's Covid-19 death toll, Mr. Bolsonaro shrugged and said, "So what? I'm sorry. What do you expect me to do?"
Hearing coronavirus doubts from their leader, some Brazilians are confused. "People think the coronavirus is a rich man's disease, that only those who travel catch it," said Claudio Rodrigues Melo, who set up a soup kitchen for needy neighbors in one of São Paulo's poorest areas.
"Or they think it only impacts the elderly, or even that it's fake news, something made up by the Globo news network to discredit Bolsonaro," he said. 
Claudio Rodrigues Melo, president of the Association of Brasilandia Residents PHOTO: Tommaso Protti for The Wall Street Journal
In Manaus, Ms. de Lima's death was among hundreds that have put that Amazon River city at the heart of Brazil's coronavirus struggle. It is a place with far too few hospital beds and other health-care facilities to cope with such a disease outbreak.
Ms. de Lima's niece, Rosa Alves, had frantically but unsuccessfully sought aid as her aunt's condition worsened. "We feel humiliated. We pay taxes and when we need help, we ask for it and help never comes," Ms. Alves said.
Manaus buried about 140 bodies the day Ms. de Lima died, six times the normal rate, according to its mayor, Arthur Virgilio. The mayor, a 74-year-old who described himself as stoic in the face of past tragedies, has openly wept as he watches his hometown buckle and his people suffer. On a recent night, learning of mass burials in the city, he broke down.
"I am asking for more help from Brasilia, we are at our limits," Mr. Virgilio said. "We are heading for the peak, we need help from the federal government and the international community."
The fast spread of the virus in Manaus, which is a hub for jungle safaris by American and European tourists, raises a note of caution for wealthy nations in the Northern Hemisphere. Hopes that coming warm weather will slow the virus clash with the mounting toll in a steamy city where the average April high was around 87 Fahrenheit.
"The virus's ability to survive is lower in a hot climate, but that doesn't mean it will become less aggressive or less infectious," said Domingos Alves, a professor at Ribeirão Preto Medical School in São Paulo who studies epidemics.
Both Brazil's national policies toward the coronavirus and its toll from the virus contrast with its neighbors'. Argentina, a much smaller country that went into lockdown a month ago, has had a total of just 246 Covid-19 deaths. Colombia has recorded 340 and Chile fewer still.
In those countries, there's now concern that Brazilians will spread Covid-19 across porous borders. In Paraguay, soldiers have dug a trench along a road entering from Brazil to discourage Brazilians from easily walking in and potentially spreading the virus, the Associated Press reported.
"Brazil worries me a lot," Argentina's President Alberto Fernández recently told reporters, citing the traffic flow from São Paulo.
Across Brazil, many local governors and mayors have enacted stay-at-home policies despite Mr. Bolsonaro's opposition. Still, from the Amazon to the country's wealthier, European-style southern enclaves, those pushing for tough measures to keep people apart appear to be losing the battle.
The share of people supporting social isolation in a survey taken last week fell to 52% from 60% in the first week of April, according to pollster Datafolha. And among Brazilians with smartphones that can be tracked, only 40% appear to be adhering to stay-home measures, said In Loco, a tech company focused on geolocation data.
Data from Google's Covid-19 Community Mobility Reports show growing numbers of Brazilians out shopping and going to work in the past two weeks, while Chileans and Colombians stay home.
The state of Santa Catarina in Brazil's affluent south was the first to reopen, a little more than a week ago. Women and children thronged an upscale shopping center in the city of Blumenau.
The mall laid out a red carpet for the shoppers. Store employees lined up outdoors to greet them, while a saxophonist played Creedence Clearwater Revival's "Have You Ever Seen the Rain?" All precautions were taken to protect customers, according to the mall's owner.
"We are running a risk, but we need to keep our jobs," said one clothing store's manager, Andrea Morgana de Souza. "We are taking all the precautions we can. Customers can't try the clothes on, and they are advised to clean their hands with alcohol when entering."
Santa Catarina state had 1,115 confirmed Covid-19 cases as of April 22, and 39 dead. One week later, the count was 2,085 infections and 46 deaths.
The sight of economic activity heartens Mr. Bolsonaro, a former army captain elected in 2018 on a pledge to revive an economy that had suffered a brutal recession and fallen far behind other big emerging markets such as China and India.
"If companies don't function, they won't pay employees," he wrote on Twitter on March 25. "We should open businesses and do everything we can to protect the health of the elderly and infirm."
About two weeks ago, the International Monetary Fund projected a 5.3% decline in Brazil's gross domestic product this year because of Covid-19's effects. Brazilian manufacturing contracted sharply in April amid the country's efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus, IHS Markit said Monday.
Health officials don't foresee a peak in Brazil's new cases of Covid-19 before middle or late May. Infectious-disease experts say a widespread return to work, restaurants and stadiums now could fuel an explosion of sickness and death.
Brazil has tested only about 1,600 per million people, far below the 20,200 tests per million done in the U.S. so far and the 30,000 or more per million in parts of Europe, according to research firm Statista.
Taking into account the minimal testing, a University of São Paulo study has concluded the number of coronavirus infections in Brazil since the pandemic began could be as high as 1.6 million as of May 3. Dr. Alves from Ribeirão Preto Medical School, who worked on that study, said, "Brazil is already the global epicenter of the coronavirus."
One cluster is in Rio de Janeiro, nicknamed the Marvelous City. Not long ago Rio was celebrating the prestige it achieved by hosting the Olympics and World Cup soccer. Now Rio state has so many Covid-19 patients the waiting list for an ICU bed or a respirator is 360 patients long, state health secretary Edmar Santos recently told Globo television network.
"We are on the verge of collapse," he said. "We will quickly see chaos, not just in Rio de Janeiro, but in all of Brazil."
Mr. Santos himself tested positive for coronavirus in April. He has recovered and gone back to work.
Share Your Thoughts
What should Brazil do about its growing coronavirus problem? Join the conversation below.
In a country where tens of millions live day to day, stay-at-home measures are seen by many as unrealistic. This week, Brasilandia, one of Sao Paulo's poorest slums, bustled with economic activity, its residents torn between fear of the virus and the need to make money.
"The quarantine needs to continue because so many people are dying," said Junio de Jesus Oliveira. The 31-year-old closed his Brasilandia locksmith shop and gave tools to his three former employees so they could try to make a living on their own.
One day last week he sat outside a bar he owns, planning to let in only one person at a time. By afternoon, he hadn't yet sold a single can of beer.
Ryan Cesar Martins, 27, said he couldn't afford to honor the social-isolation rules imposed by the state's governor in March. He said a car-painting business he ran that earned him nearly $1,300 in January brought in less than $100 in April. His wife, Keila Evellin, 22, lost her off-the-books job as a saleswoman. They have maxed out their credit cards.
On Thursday, Mr. Martins went to work as an employee of another car-painting shop.
"If it's a choice between getting the coronavirus and dying of hunger, I prefer not to die of hunger, so I'm going back to work," Mr. Martins said. 
Ryan Cesar Martins and his wife, Keila Evellin, inside his workshop in Brasilandia. PHOTO: Tommaso Protti for The Wall Street Journal
Write to Luciana Magalhaes at Luciana.Magalhaes@wsj.com