URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006905950
ID : GPHN2020050500048

Date : 2020-05-04 18:41:00
Title : Coronavirus in France: they discover that the first case occurred in December, a month earlier than previously believed
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus was present last December in France, a month before the country had the first confirmed case of the disease. Evidence that emerged after the negative flu tests and other coronavirus tests were reviewed at a hospital in Bobigny, in the suburbs of Paris.
The head of intensive care, Professor Yves Cohen, of the Avicenne hospital in Bobihny and the Jean Verdier hospital in Bondy in Saint Denis, said that "we had a positive case of Covid 19 on 27 December last, when the man was hospitalized with us at the Jean Verdier."
In a retrospective analysis of PCR serological tests, conducted on 24 patients affected by pneumonia in December and in January in those two hospitals, they reached this conclusion. A scientific paper is to be published next week on these cases.
This means that the virus was circulating earlier on French territory, at the end of December, and no one knew. "We are not surprised because WHO said it was circulating in China since at least 8 December. With the multiplication of travel, it is normal for the virus to arrive quickly in France," said professor infectologist Olivier Bouchaud, who works at the same Avicenne hospital.
"I was aware of those results. PCR tests on a patient show very well that he has developed a Covid. We then have the case in France on December 27th. Those lung tests were kept and could be re-analyzed," Professor Bouchaud said.
The patient was ill 15 days ago and contaminated his two children but not his wife, according to Professor Cohen's explanations. He was surprised because he didn't understand how it had been contaminated. "I hadn't traveled. Except China. But his wife works in a supermarket fishmonger's shop, although she sells only French products. For she pure chance we knew that she works near people who sell sushi and in the vicinity of an Asian restaurant where there were Chinese staff,"she explained. She probably had COVID 19 but didn't show a single symptom.
Professor Cohen contacted the patient to tell him what's new and the sick man was astonished.
This could show that Wuhan is not the only source of the virus because at the time there were no people travelling between that region and France and therefore there would be no transmission potency, according to Professor Karol Sikora, former director of WHO.
"There could be several versions of the virus evolving at different times in different places. The only way to know is to sequence the test, which is what will surely be done in the coming days," Sikora announced.
Dr Bouchaud suggests that you are not facing patient Zero in France. But there are other research to be done. Officially the first cases in Paris arose on 24 January about three people. A Frenchman of Chinese origin who went to Wuhan, the origin of the epidemic in China, and returned to Paris and a Chinese couple. They were taken over by the Bichat hospital in Paris and the Chinese marriage by chu de Bordeaux.