URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006888622
ID : GPHN2020050200025

Date : 2020-05-01 15:45:00
Title : Chimerix initiates phase 2/3 study of DSTAT in COVID-19 patients with acute lung injury
Ariticle : 
Chimerix, a biopharmaceutical company focused on accelerating the development of medicines to treat cancer and other serious diseases, announced the initiation of a phase 2/3 study of dociparstat sodium (DSTAT) in COVID-19 patients with acute lung injury (ALI).
DSTAT is a glycosaminoglycan derivative of heparin with robust anti-inflammatory properties, including the potential to address underlying causes of coagulation disorders with substantially reduced risk of bleeding complications compared to commercially available forms of heparin.
“Given the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have evaluated many potential targets to address the clinical manifestations associated with severe COVID-19,”said Joseph Lasky, M.D., Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary and critical care section chief, John W. Deming, M.D. Endowed chair in Internal Medicine at Tulane University Medical School. “Based on the literature, we believe DSTAT has the potential to reduce the excessive inflammation, immune cell infiltration and hypercoagulation associated with poor outcomes in patients with severe COVID-19 infection.”
“DSTAT is well-suited to unlock the anti-inflammatory properties of heparin as it may be dosed at much higher levels than any available form of heparin without triggering bleeding complications,” said Mike Sherman, chief executive officer of Chimerix. “We had planned to evaluate DSTAT in several indications of high unmet need, including ALI from different causes. The pandemic intensified our focus on ALI associated with COVID-19. Our team has worked closely with critical care physicians treating COVID-19 patients and with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to develop a phase 2/3 protocol to determine if DSTAT can reduce the need for mechanical ventilation and improve the rate of survival in patients with severe COVID-19 infection.”
The study is a 1:1 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2/3 trial to determine the safety and efficacy of DSTAT in adults with severe COVID-19 who are at high risk of respiratory failure. Eligible subjects will be those with confirmed COVID-19 who require hospitalization and supplemental oxygen therapy. The primary endpoint of the study is the proportion of subjects who survive and do not require mechanical ventilation through day 28. Additional endpoints include time to improvement as assessed by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease ordinal scale, time to hospital discharge, time to resolution of fever, number of ventilator-free days, all-cause mortality, and changes in key biomarkers (e.g. interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-a (TNF-a), high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), C-reactive protein and d-dimer).
The phase 2 portion of the study will enroll 24 subjects to confirm the maximum safe dose and will then expand by an additional 50 patients (74 total) at the selected dose. A formal analysis of all endpoints, including supportive biomarkers will be performed at the conclusion of the phase 2 portion of the study. Contingent upon positive results, the phase 3 portion of the study will enroll approximately 450 subjects.
The clinical manifestations of COVID-19 range from mild, self-limited respiratory tract illness to severe alveolar damage and progressive respiratory failure, multiple organ failure, and death. Mortality in COVID-19 is associated with severe pulmonary disease and coagulation disorders such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).