URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006876966
ID : GPHN2020043000086

Date : 2020-04-30 00:58:00
Title : City closes five CTrain station buildings as COVID-19 changes life in Calgary
Ariticle : 
Five CTrain station buildings are closed around the clock after the city first limited their hours to deal with an uptick in complaints about “social disorder.”
As of Wednesday, buildings at Anderson, Southland, Heritage, Erlton and Victoria Park stations are completely closed. The platforms are still open, and CTrain service continues. Bus shelters at SAIT, Chinook and Southland stations are now also open only during the day.
At the beginning of April, Mayor Naheed Nenshi said the city had been hearing that people didn’t feel safe on public transit, prompting some station building closures between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
Transit ridership across Calgary has been dramatically down because of the COVID-19 pandemic as people work from home and stay in while most businesses are shut down. On the CTrain, city officials have said ridership is down as much as 90 per cent. Public transit, as an essential service, continues to operate in Calgary on a reduced schedule and limited capacity while allowing riders to maintain physical distancing.
The city said in a statement Wednesday the previous nighttime closures were part of a pilot, and they resulted in “a significant reduction in customer safety concerns.”
The more stringent closures are the next phase of the move to limit “large gatherings” and disorder at stations, the city said.
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
Mike Mahar, president of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 583, said bus and CTrain drivers have been seeing issues with people loitering on transit, since some have virtually nowhere to go as public spaces shut down.
Transit is typically one of the biggest budget items for the city, and council will hear more Thursday about how much the COVID-19 pandemic is costing Calgary. Nenshi said earlier this week the city will also start a discussion about what options they might have to stem the bleeding.
Nenshi has said the city is losing up to $15 million per week, and that number could get close to half a billion dollars by the end of 2020.
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
“The quantity of money we’re talking about … there’s actually no way that cuts would get us to the $400 million or so that we’re going to be losing in this year.”
Transit, in particular, is seeing big losses compared to what the city normally collects from Calgarians, “but we still have to supply a bare-bones level of service,” Nenshi said.
The city has temporarily laid off a little more than 10 per cent of its workforce — largely part-time or casual workers who would have been employed at recreation centres if they weren’t currently closed.
Mahar said more job losses could be ahead, and he doesn’t expect transit will be spared from cuts.
“Everything that could be bad is bad,” he said. “We’ve got a tremendous loss in revenues as well as ridership. Projected losses for year-end are kind of unprecedented.”