URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006888883
ID : GPHN2020050200036

Date : 2020-05-01 01:35:00
Title : Coronavirus outbreaks hit the Lakeshore General and Douglas hospitals - Montreal Gazette
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus outbreaks hit the Lakeshore General and Douglas hospitals
Author of the article:
Publishing date:
15 hours ago  •  3 minute read
File photo from May 30, 2018 of the Lakeshore General Hospital in Pointe-Claire on Montreal’s West Island. Graham Hughes / Montreal Gazette
Article Sidebar
Trending
Article content
Thirty patients and 34 health-care workers at the Lakeshore General Hospital have tested positive for COVID-19 in an outbreak on a single floor — a situation so dire authorities have had no other choice but to temporarily bar new admissions to the geriatrics unit.
And the West Island health authority, which is in charge of the Pointe-Claire hospital, is also trying to contain a second major outbreak at another institution it oversees: the Douglas Mental Health University Institute, where 16 patients and 22 workers have tested positive.
We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
Try refreshing your browser, or
tap here to see other videos from our team .
Coronavirus outbreaks hit the Lakeshore General and Douglas hospitals Back to video
At his daily briefing on Thursday, Quebec Premier François Legault spoke about the outbreaks at the two hospitals, along with one at Maisonneuve-Rosemont, describing their situations as “critical.”
Le Devoir reported Thursday that the outbreak at the Verdun hospital occurred after psychiatric patients were transferred from the Lakeshore to the Douglas, but officials denied that was the case. Although the Lakeshore did move all its psychiatric patients to the Douglas in the midst of the outbreak in Pointe-Claire, officials said none of the Lakeshore patients had COVID-19 before being sent to Verdun.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
The Lakeshore is now filled to beyond its capacity and the CIUSSS de l’Ouest-de-l’Île-de-Montréal is sending new patients to a field hospital set up by the Canadian Red Cross inside a hockey arena in LaSalle.
“The mobile hospital in LaSalle will allow the (CIUSSS) to receive more patients and to optimize the delivery of care and services to elderly people with COVID-19 on its territory,” spokesperson Guillaume Bérubé said in an email.
The morgue at the Lakeshore is filled with those who have succumbed to the pandemic respiratory illness and other causes, a source told the Montreal Gazette. In response, authorities have parked a refrigerated truck outside the Lakeshore, along with mobile morgues outside LaSalle Hospital and the Douglas, Bérubé confirmed.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
“Like other (health authorities) in Quebec, the (West Island CIUSSS) has proactively planned” temporary morgues, he added. “If a very high number of deaths were to occur, the (CIUSSS) would then be able to treat remains in a dignified manner until the funeral homes can take charge of them.”
The source noted that at the Lakeshore, 21 out of 38 patients tested positive on 4 North, a so-called cold zone. Another 17 out of 32 patients got infected on 4 South, another cold zone. However, Bérubé disputed that figure, saying a total of 30 patients contracted the novel coronavirus in the outbreak. In the same email, Bérubé observed that the Lakeshore has a total of 79 confirmed cases.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
The source suggested the Lakeshore outbreak was caused as a result of staff moving between the hot and cold zones of the hospital. The fourth floor houses geriatrics, acute medicine, cardiology and psychiatry.
Bérubé said patients who test positive for COVID-19 are transferred to a containment zone.
“Following the new outbreak at the hospital, a team reorganized the (Lakeshore’s) containment zones,” he explained. “For all other patients, the precautionary measures recommended by public health authorities are being applied.”
The hospital will “continue to test (patients) and ensure that all staff members are tested over the next few days,” Bérubé added.
Advertisement