URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872545
ID : GPHN2020042900225

Date : 2020-04-29 09:41:00
Title : Faced with relief from action, authorities seek attention to the virus
Ariticle : 
BANGKOK (AP) — As governments advance in their plans to ease restrictions on coronavirus, health authorities around the world called on people to remain vigilant so that victories achieved in the battle against the pandemic are not lost.
With South Koreans about to celebrate their longest holiday since their outbreak began in February, the authorities asked citizens wednesday to think twice before they travel and to continue to wear masks, not share food, and stay at home if they feel sick. In Japan, people were asked not to travel during the upcoming Golden Week holiday.
"We must not allow a moment of carelessness to trigger massive transmissions that would cause the efforts we've invested so far to fade like water bubbles," said South Korea's Deputy Health Minister Kim Gang-lip.
South Korea was the first country after China to register a wave of cases but, like many other outbreaks of infection, has seen the number of COVID-19 sufferers fall. On Wednesday, he reported just nine new contagions, and did not exceed 100 a day since April 1, allowing the government to relax the rules of social estrangement and prepare to reopen schools.
When and how to resume activity has been the subject of intense debate around the world, but perhaps nowhere but in the United States. Some states have begun to lift restrictions on coronavirus and, according to their own, and often arbitrary, calendar, leave Americans the power to make their own decisions about what they should and should not do to protect their health, lifestyle, and neighbors.
"There will never be a perfect amount of protection," said Josh Santarpia, a microbiology expert at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, who is studying coronavirus. "It's a personal risk assessment. Everyone has to decide, person by person, the risk they are willing to tolerate."
Officials around the world face increasing pressure to take steps to revive their economies hit by quarantines that now seem to be eased. France, Spain and Greece are among the last countries to announce the roadmap for reopening businesses and schools.
Pope Francis entered the debate on the limitations on religious services decreed by the coronavirus days after the Italian bishops complained that the government did not offer any plans to resume masses as part of their plans to return to normal.
"As we begin to have protocols to leave quarantine, let us pray that the Lord will give his people, all of us, the grace of prudence and obedience to protocols so that the pandemic does not return," Francis said.
In this process of easier restrictions, health authorities will be closely monitoring for signs of a possible resurgence of the virus.
On Tuesday, for example, Germany reported an increase in the number of infections since small business reopening just a week ago, although it is too early to determine whether that measure was the cause. In Singapore, which has been praised for its rapid response to the pandemic, a new outbreak among migrant workers led the government to expand its social estrangement rules until June.
Worldwide, the number of confirmed contagions exceeds 3.1 million — including one million in the United States — with more than 217,000 dead, according to the Johns Hopkins University count. The actual figures are thought to be much higher because of the limited number of tests, the differences in counting the dead, and the lack of transparency of theGovernments.
In China, the country first appeared the virus late last year, the government announced that its testimonial annual meeting will be held next month after a two-month delay on its original date. The event, involving around 3,000 members of the chamber, is an indication of Beijing's growing confidence that it has overtaken the pandemic.
In Japan, Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike wednesday called for the expansion of the national alarm state, which urges people to stay home and keep their social distance. The daily report of new confirmed contagions in the Japanese capital recently exceeded 100, he added.
___
Journalists from The Associated Press around the world contributed to this firm.