URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006896077
ID : GPHN2020050300063

Date : 2020-05-02 04:01:00
Title : A virus cluster at an Auckland school has Australian parents worried. Should they be?
Ariticle : 
Medical experts have assured Australian parents a coronavirus cluster at a New Zealand school that has so far infected 94 people is no reason to fear sending their children back to classrooms.
The cluster began at Marist College in Auckland, a Catholic girls' school, with a teacher who tested positive on March 22. The New Zealand Herald reported she had not been overseas or in contact with any returned traveller, and the origin of her infection is still unknown.
The 750-pupil school closed immediately, for what was initially expected to be three days. But on March 25 the entire country went into lockdown, and by the following day the Marist caseload - by then officially a cluster - had grown to 11 cases including the principal, six other staff members and four students, "mostly seniors" according to the Herald.
The chair of the school's board of trustees, Stephen Dallow, speculated that the "very small" staffroom may have been the main point of transmission, rather than the larger classrooms.
By March 30, the Marist College cluster had 47 cases and was the largest in the country. It has since grown to infect a total of 94 people, the second-largest in New Zealand after a wedding which led to 98 cases.
New Zealand health officials have refused to release details of exactly how many of those cases were teachers, how many were students and how many were people who have never set foot in the school. According to one report the number of students was as few as 12.
It has also been reported that the outbreak may have had its genesis at a "fiafia night", a cultural event held at the school on March 14.
In Australia, some parents, doctors and commentators, including GP and former federal MP Kerryn Phelps, have cited the Marist cluster as proof we should be more cautious about sending students back into Australian classrooms.
However, medical experts have dismissed those concerns, telling The Sun-Herald the outbreak did not ipso facto show children are susceptible to the virus.
Microbiologist Siouxsie Wiles, head of the Bioluminescent Superbugs Lab at the University of Auckland, said the cluster was named after the school but that did not mean the transmissions all happened there. "It is not that 100 children and teachers got it," she said. "It's the fact that it spread to their families, that kind of thing."
Dr Wiles said the global reviews of literature about children and COVID-19 showed infection in minors was possible but "very rare". The more dangerous part of going back to school would be parents hanging out and chatting at drop-off and pick-up, she said. "It's not like if you send your kids to school they're all going to come home with COVID."
Kristine Macartney, director of the National Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance, and Australia's foremost authority on child infections, said the cluster potentially arose from the cultural event held at the school, which showed why current social distancing measures were still required.
"It sounds like it's related to an event that occurred well before restrictions were in place or being adhered to," she said. "It's not so relevant to the situation we're in now."
Professor Macartney was the lead author of a study in NSW schools, commissioned by NSW Health and the Education Department, which found there was "an extraordinary low rate of transmission in schools". The study tracked nine students and nine staff members who were COVID-19 positive, all of whom had opportunity to spread the disease at schools, and found that out of 863 close contacts, only two caught the virus.
"This is real-world data," Professor Macartney said. "This is observing what actually occurred in schools at the time."
Asked about the Marist cluster on the ABC's Q&A program last week, federal deputy chief medical officer Nick Coatsworth also played down concerns, linking the outbreak to the mass gathering held at the school.
"The data that we have to go on is the data we've seen in Australia, most particularly the recent data out of NSW," he said. "That's the data that we've got to go on, and it's data that's backed up by evidence and research from around the world. The bulk of the evidence says that schools are safe."
Last week New Zealand's director-general of health, Ashley Bloomfield, announced authorities would conduct a study into the Marist College cluster to determine the "pattern of infection".