URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006867027
ID : GPHN2020042900043

Date : 2020-04-28 17:09:00
Title : WHO warns food supply chains are breaking down
Ariticle : 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has on Tuesday called for greater capacity for certain flight routes with the aim of increasing shipments of diagnostic tests and protective equipment to areas where COVID-19 is expanding, especially Latin America, but also in Africa. If protection and material do not reach these regions of the world, the human cost can be much higher, while food supply chains could be at risk in the middle of the world.
Paul Molinaro, WHO's head of support and logistics operations, has said that global vaccination shipments were interrupted in April and that if that was maintained until May there would be gaps in immunizations and campaigns against other disease outbreaks, generating great human, economic and global food trade.
The global coronavirus pandemic can cause further shock in global food trade and trigger a new food crisis, a week ago a man responsible for China's agricultural sector to Reuters said a week ago.
The UN World Food Programme (WFP) has observed the first cuts in some food supply chains that "could have a profound impact," Molinaro said at a UN virtual press conference in Geneva.
"A prolonged pandemic crisis could rapidly put pressure on food supply chains, a complex network of interactions involving farmers, agricultural inputs, processing plants, shipping, retailers and more. The shipping industry has already shown a slowdown due to port closures, and logistical hurdlees could disrupt supply chains in the coming weeks," FAO said in a recent report.
"We saw that the international air transport system on which we relyed heavily for cargo movement was gradually shut down. So now we're at the point where we need to look for solutions," Molinaro said.
"This rapidly expanding global epidemic has created great uncertainty around international trade and agricultural markets," said Yu Kangzhen, China's Deputy Minister of Agriculture.
"If the epidemic continues to spread and scale up, the impact on international food trade and production will definitely worsen and could trigger a new food crisis," Yu said during a video conference on the country's agricultural landscape.
Tyson Foods' ProblemsTyson Foods, one of america's largest meat producers, warns that "the food supply chain is breaking" in the midst of the coronavirus crisis.
In a full-page announcement Sunday in the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, the Arkansas-based company warned that "there will be a limited supply of products" until the closed facility can reopen.
"As pork, beef and chicken plants are forced to close, even for short periods of time, millions of pounds of meat will disappear from the supply chain," wrote John Tyson, chairman of Tyson's board.
"On commercial aircraft, we are always willing to accept more offers. We constantly ask for more asset or air cargo offers at an extreme discount," says Molinaro.
Prevention needs to beDemand for health equipment has skyrocketed during the crisis, but WHO has managed to acquire and distribute 1.1 million diagnostic tests, and another 1.5 million are on the way, he said. The organization obtained some preferential prices and its goal is to secure 9 million tests through consortia. Some 3.03 million people haveSARS-CoV-2 worldwide and 210,263 have died, according to the latest Reuters count.
Panama will serve as a center for the regional distribution of personal protective equipment and other supplies in Latin America, after delays due to distance and other problems, Molinaro said.
"We are aware that (there were) difficulties in supplying Latin America at first," the official acknowledged. "At that time the workload was not high and we were concentrating in other areas."
"The situation has changed and we are now in the process of planning that the upcoming acquisitions and batch volumes we get at least in PPE (personal protection equipment) will be heading in that direction."