URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006870081
ID : GPHN2020042900186

Date : 2020-04-29 04:04:00
Title : Dharavi gets 42 cases in biggest 1-day spike, 4 deaths make toll 18
Ariticle : 
Dharavi on Tuesday reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day, 42, and four deaths, taking the slum's total case load to 330, including 18 deaths. Also, seven staffers from BMC's G-North ward office have tested positive for the coronavirus, including a few civic engineers and staffers from the water department (Dharavi lies in GNorth ward).
Looking at the spike in Dharavi's coronavirus cases, the BMC has moved to acquire three more private hospitals: Life Care and Aayush in Dharavi, and Family Care in Mahim.
The four who died on Tuesday include a man and a woman, both 60 years old, who were admitted in Sion Hospital, and a 48-year-old man who was in KEM hospital. The 42 cases reported on Tuesday are from Matunga Labour Camp, 90-ft Road, Mukund Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Indira Chawl, New Municipal Chawl, Kunchi Kurve Nagar and Azad Nagar.
On the hospital acquisitions, civic officials said that with the move, the total number of hospital beds available for Dharavi's Covid-19 patients has increased by 115. Earlier in the month, the BMC had acquired another private institution in Dharavi, Sai Hospital.
The civic body is empowered to make such acquisitions in times of a severe health emergency under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Thus, staffers at all the acquired hospitals have now been pressed into Covid-19 duty.
About the sharp rise in the number of patients from Dharavi, civic officials said it owed to "a focused approach to screening and testing of locals, especially in high-risk zones". The strategy, a civic official said, included doorto-door screening, conducting fever clinics in various localities, and also asking private clinics to ensure that they are operational for the benefit of locals. It has been observed across the city that several private clinics have shut as certain private medical practitioners do not want to come in contact with probable coronavirus patients.
Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the G-North ward, said, "We have conducted 1,530 tests so far, and institutionally quarantined 1,857 persons. We are also strengthening our quarantine capacity. While currently we have 2,300 beds in various institutional quarantine facilities, we plan to increase the same to 3,000 by Friday as a private school in the area is being acquired for the purpose."Meanwhile, Mahim has reported five new Covid-19 cases, including of a 35-yearold from Mahim Police Colony and a 50-year-old from Fisherman Colony. Mahim's total case load is now 30. Also on Tuesday, four more cases were reported from Dadar, taking its total to 33. The new cases include two people from municipal quarters and a woman from Dadar Police Colony.