URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006910485
ID : GPHN2020050500162

Date : 2020-05-05 10:45:00
Title : Dairy industry faces 30% dip in demand during Covid-19 lockdown period
Ariticle : 
Introduction
The world is facing a biological threat, Covid-19, a contagious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome Corona virus 2, also called as Sars-CoV-2. Since December 2019, the virus has infected over 2.9 million people worldwide and such threat has put down the major countries under lockdown which has severely affected the global economy.
India faced a lockdown period of 21 days which further got extended over period of 19 days. During this period, the factories have been shut down, the demand for consumable goods is at ground level and the unemployment is touching sky high. Initially, the GDP of India was assumed to be growing at 5.3-5.7%, however, the assumption has been changed and now it is assumed to grow below 2%. Food is one of the major sectors, which are facing the heat of Covid-19. The pandemic has caused great disruption in the production and distribution of the food items. Moreover, the supply and demand of essential food items are facing the turbulence due to the lockdown.
During the period of lockdown, the Rs 100,000 crore Indian dairy industry suffered an unhealthy dip of 30% in terms of demand. However, the first few days of lockdown, the dairy industry witnessed 15-20% surge in demand, as consumers were hoarding the milk and related products. The restricted movements and strict regulations lower down the demand by 30%.
Effect on dairy industry
Pre-lockdown, the dairy industry was facing a supply shortage ironically. But, the lockdown announcement has now led to demand reduction itself. The home sales of dairy products which account for 15% of the total revenue have been cut completely as people have shifted to packaged milk. Moreover, the restaurants and street food vendors of Indian delicacies like kulfi and falooda are shut down. Concisely, the bulk buying by hotels, restaurant and cafes (commonly termed as HoReCa) is facing a complete halt. Another major reason is the migration of labourers from the regions leading to lack of labour supply. The lockdown has led to shutting down of the roadside tea stalls and juice corners consequently resulting in large-scale unemployment. Thus, the dairy industry is working with approximately 50% workforce.
The prices of skimmed milk powder which had elevated to Rs 340/kg before the outbreak of Covid-19 due to shortage, have now been reduced to Rs 230/kg due to fall in global demand. Reconstitution demands are minimum due to reduction in demand from confectioneries, ice cream makers and HoReCa sector. Ice cream sector which accounts for 40% sales during the summers is the worst hit due to the fear of infection. Export units have completely shut and are unlikely to be opened in next couple of weeks due to sealing of borders.
Certain states like Jharkhand, West Bengal and Orissa cannot buy extra milk which is forcing the farmers to throw it. Farmers near urban areas and those connected to cooperatives may be able to sell their milk, but those disconnected to such routes and depend on home sales have witnessed a great fall. Even farmers from Kerala and Karnataka have resorted to dumping milk into roads and canals. Moreover, due to unavailability of cattle feed, it is becoming difficult for them to maintain their cattle. For dairy industry, the logistics issue due to lockdown is both for procurement and distribution. For instance, Amul, the Indian dairy giant, collects milk from more than 18,000 villages and, also distributes milk and milk products pan-India.