URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006903696
ID : GPHN2020050400209

Date : 2020-05-04 10:44:00
Title : Government offices in Meghalaya start functioning amid COVID-19 lockdown
Ariticle : 
Shillong, May 4 -- Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, all the government offices in Meghalaya have resumed functioning from Monday with 100 per cent strength for group A and B officers.
However, any employee's family members has severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness symptoms or have recent travel history, have been advised not to attend to office but to work from home, "Employee having symptoms of cough, fever and sore throat, or who have had any contact primary contacts recently should go for testing immediately," he said.
"Persons above 65 years of age, person with co-morbidities and pregnant women should stay at home," the Chief Secretary added.
Additional Chief Secretary for Personnel A.R. (A) Department, Rebecca Vanessa Suchiang said that all the Government offices in the State shall function at 100 per cent strength for group A and B officers and 33 per cent strength for group C and D staff with effect from Monday.
In her order, Suchiang also directed the head of departments concerned to notify the roster of duty for group C and D staff.
Moreover, the State government has also issued a slew of health and safety protocols for its employees to combat the COVID-19 epidemic.
As per the protocol, employees should sanitise their hands before entering the office premises and should wear a mask at all times and maintain respiratory etiquette besides maintaining social distancing of at least 1.5 meters from each other.
Employees have also been directed to avoid touching their face, eyes, nose and mouth and also the railings while climbing staircases in government offices.
Advising that large physical meetings should be avoided, the government said windows and doors should be kept open whenever possible to make sure that the room or venue is well ventilated. Lunch time has also been staggered in government offices. The employees have also been directed to download the Aryogya Setu app.
Earlier, the State government had announced a deferment of 50 per cent in the gross salary of the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister and Ministers besides All India Services Officers and central services officers on deputation to Meghalaya due to fall in revenue during the lockdown. A deferment of 35 per cent in the gross salary of Group A and B officers, and 25 per cent in respect of Group C staff of all departments except for all officers and staff of the health, home (police) and home (civil defence and home guards) departments. UNI RRK AKM
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from United News of India.