URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907052
ID : GPHN2020050500100

Date : 2020-05-05 01:46:00
Title : Virus hid for 29 days in Europe
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus could have been in Europe earlier than originally thought after French scientists retested samples and found a confirmed case from December 2019.
The head of resuscitation at the Avicenne and Jean Verdier hospitals in the northern suburbs of Paris Dr Yves Cohen told French 24-hour news channel BFM TV that scientists had retested samples from patients treated in December and January who tested negative for the flu.
Out of those 24, one of the samples retested was found to be positive for COVID-19, on December 27.
RELATED:
Follow all the latest coronavirus updates
RELATED: National tally: Coronavirus cases in Australia
The test samples for the flu were collected in the same way as the tests for the coronavirus and tested multiple times, according to Reuters.
More than 25,000 people in France have died from the virus. The country confirmed its first three COVID-19 cases on January 24, including two patients in Paris and another in the southwestern city of Bordeaux.
But despite finding this new positive case that predates the country’s first confirmed cases by almost a full month, Dr Cohen said it’s too early to say the case is the country’s “patient zero”.
Identifying the first person to have coronavirus can help authorities and researchers understand how the virus spread in their community.
RELATED:
When will lockdowns end in my state?
Dr Cohen said the first patient, a man, was sick for more than two weeks and infected his two children, but his wife managed to avoid contracting the virus.
“He was amazed,” Dr Cohen said. “He didn’t understand how he had been infected.
“We put the puzzle together and he had not made any trips. The only contact that he had was with his wife.”
Dr Cohen said health authorities should investigate whether the Chinese colleagues of the man’s wife, who works at a sushi stand, had recently travelled to China, where the virus was first detected and is thought to have originated.
France confirmed its first cases on January 24, when three people were diagnosed with COVID-19.
France has since confirmed 169,583 cases, and 25,204 people have died according to a tally maintained by John Hopkins University.