URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006873490
ID : GPHN2020042900248

Date : 2020-04-29 12:55:00
Title : ABORTION AT HOME Hundreds of women getting abortions at home during coronavirus pandemic by using online service
Ariticle : 
HUNDREDS of women are getting abortions at home during the coronavirus pandemic by using drugs from an online service.
The telemedicine abortion trend was already growing in the US before the outbreak, after a crackdown by some states saw access to care restricted, with many clinics forced to close.
But the spread of Covid-19 – and the lockdown it brought with it – has seen demand for the mail order termination pills explode.
The TelAbortion program has expanded from serving five to 13 states over the last year, the New York Times reports.
Two of those — Illinois and Maryland — were added to the list as the coronavirus crisis exploded.
Not including those new states, the number of abortions obtained through the service in March and April was roughly double that of January and February.
The program sends women – who must be 10 weeks pregnant or less – abortion pills by mail to take on their own, after a video consultation with a certified doctor.
It mailed 841 packages of pills and confirmed 611 completed abortions as of April 22.
‘NO ALTERNATIVE’
One woman who used the service, Ashley Dale, 35, said without it she would have had to fly to Honolulu to get a termination.
She told a medic on a video consultation: “The alternative would be to wait for a doctor to come to my island in three weeks.”
By then, she would be too far gone to qualify for the scheme, she said.
Another woman – Dawn, 30, who was terrified of her post-partum depression returning – feared protesters at her local Planned Parenthood in might recognize her.
She said: “I just don’t want to deal with that ridicule.”
‘WORKING TO EXPAND’
TelAbortion has been allowed to operate as a research study for several years under a special deal with the Food and Drug Administration.
Dr Elizabeth Raymond, senior medical associate at Gynuity Health Projects, which runs the program, said the scheme was legal in around half the states.
The medical professionals who do TelAbortion’s video consultations must be licensed in states the drugs are mailed to – but they don’t have to practice there.
And the patients themselves don’t have to live in the states TelAbortion serves – they just have to be in one of them during the video call and provide an address to ship the pills to there.
The program currently serves Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Montana, New Mexico, New York, Oregon and Washington.
But Dr Raymond told the Times TelAbortion was “working to expand to new states as fast as possible”, to accommodate women during the pandemic.
The huge boom in the program’s popularity has seen Republican senators recently introduce a bill to ban telemedicine abortion.