URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912227
ID : GPHN2020050600033

Date : 2020-05-05 14:17:00
Title : People are being warned not to microwave their face masks
Ariticle : 
People are being warned not to microwave their face masks
Phil Tsekouras Multi-Platform Writer, CTV News Toronto
Published Tuesday, May 5, 2020 10:17AM EDT Last Updated Tuesday, May 5, 2020 11:54AM EDT
(AP Photo/Javier Galeano)
SHARE
TORONTO --   Ontario’s Fire Marshal is warning people not to microwave personal protective equipment (PPE) as the province reports a spike in fire-related fatalities since the start of 2020.
"Heating a face mask in a microwave, in an effort to decontaminate it, is a potential fire risk and should never be done," Ontario Fire Marshal Jon Pegg said in a news release issued Tuesday.
Pegg’s comments come in response to suggestions that microwaves can be used to sterilize masks for re-use.
The Office of the Fire Marshal and Emergency Management says that microwaves are not designed to heat cloth materials, which could overheat and catch fire. Additionally, the office noted that many disposable masks are equipped with a metal nose wire or staples that can cause fires if heated in a microwave.
“Ontarians need to be especially vigilant about fire prevention as fire and smoke can travel so quickly that firefighters may not be able to rescue someone in time.”
Between Jan. 1 and May 4, Pegg said there have been 51 fire fatalities in Ontario, which represents a 65 per cent increase over the same time last year.
Pegg said 17 Ontarians died in fires in this past March alone.
“The Fire Marshal is reminding everyone that fire safety is especially important during the COVID-19 pandemic when so many families are staying at home and doing more cooking.”
Speaking to CTV News Toronto, the Office of the Fire Marshal could not definitively say that there have been more fires following the onset of COVID-19, but said that information would become available as more and more municipal fire departments report their data back.
The office says that they are not currently aware of any incidents of residents microwaving masks in Ontario, but say they have heard of claims and recommendations that masks can be sterilized in this way.
"That, coupled with the fact that this has emerged as an issue in other jurisdictions (U.S. & U.K.) prompted this warning."
"We are trying to avoid any incidents here based on misinformation or unsafe advice."
As a result, the office has laid out a number of tips you can follow to keep safe while staying at home.
They include:
Always stay in the kitchen when you are cooking - unattended cooking is a leading cause of home fires
Keep a close eye on anyone drinking alcohol while attempting to cook or smoke
Encourage smokers to smoke outside the home and garage and thoroughly extinguish all smoking materials in water or sand
Always blow out candles before leaving the room or going to bed
Avoid overloading electrical outlets and running electrical cords under rugs or furniture which can damage the cords and cause a fire
Ensure items that can burn are at least one metre away from space heaters
Test your alarms by pressing the test button - only working smoke alarms give you the early warning required to safely escape a fire in your home
Practice your home fire escape plan and make sure everyone knows two ways out of each room, if possible
Keep all exits clear of obstructions that might hinder a safe escape.
Air Date: May 4, 2020
Consumer Alert
Air Date: April 8, 2020
Most-Read