URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006874059
ID : GPHN2020043000018

Date : 2020-04-28 06:42:00
Title : Donald Trump refuses to take responsibility for spike in people ingesting disinfectant and says he 'can't imagine why' there was an increase after he spoke about using it as a coronavirus treatment
Ariticle : 
* Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said his state was flooded with calls to emergency hotlines from people asking about disinfectants after Trump's comment
* Monday Trump briefly addressed the matter and said: 'I can’t imagine why'
* Probed about whether he takes responsibility, POTUS followed up: 'No, I don't'
* Lysol and Clorox have had to issue warning against ingesting products as a coronavirus treatment
* Illinois has also reported calls to poison control after Trump pondered last week whether disinfectant could be used 'by injection inside or almost a cleaning'
Donald Trump has said he won't take responsibility for an increase in people ingesting disinfectant after he dubbed it a possible coronavirus treatment at a recent briefing.
The president managed to mostly avoid questions about his bizarre statement on Friday that claimed discussions were being held about researching injecting people with disinfectants.
He later claimed he was being 'sarcastic' but on Monday he briefly addressed the matter when asked about Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan's statements that his state was flooded with calls to emergency hotlines from people asking about disinfectants.
'I can’t imagine why,' he said. Probed about whether he takes responsibility, POTUS followed up: 'No, I don't.'
During a briefing that discussed how disinfectants can kill coronavirus on nonporous surfaces, Trump said last week pondered whether there was 'a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning'.
It sparked outrage.
'I think it is critical that the President of the United States, when people are really scared and in the middle of this worldwide pandemic, that in these press conferences, that we really get the facts out there,' Gov. Hogan told Margaret Brennan on CBS' Face the Nation.
Illinois Public Health Director Dr. Ngozi Ezike said during a Saturday press briefing.
She said concerns expressed on calls included someone who had gargled with bleach instead of mouthwash and someone who had sprayed their sinuses with a detergent solution.
'Injecting, ingesting, snorting household cleaners is dangerous. It is not advised and can be deadly,' Ezike warned.
Household cleaning brands Lysol and Clorox have had to issue statements against ingesting disinfectants.
'Bleach and other disinfectants are not suitable for consumption or injection under any circumstances,' Clorox explains on their website.
'People should always read the label for proper usage instructions. Disinfecting surfaces with bleach and other disinfecting products is one of the ways to help stop the spread of COVID-19, according to the Centers for Disease Control.
'Our products are safe when used properly. It’s critical that everyone understands the facts in order to keep themselves safe and healthy, which is why we continue to educate people about how to use disinfectants safely and effectively against COVID-19.'