URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006876630
ID : GPHN2020043000066

Date : 2020-04-29 11:58:00
Title : Chinese Scientists Find Evidence Coronavirus Can Float In the Air for Hours - VICE
Ariticle : 
News
Chinese Scientists Find Evidence Coronavirus Can Float In the Air for Hours
The research also suggests that virus droplets that have landed on the surface of nurses' PPE could be knocked back into the air.
FeatureChina via AP Images
Want the best of VICE News straight to your inbox? Sign up here.
Researchers in China who examined how the coronavirus spread through two Wuhan hospitals at the height of the outbreak there have found evidence that it can be transmitted through the air.
The research was published this week in Nature and says that while the transmission of COVID-19 through human respiratory droplets and direct contact is clear, “the potential for aerosol transmission is poorly understood.”
In order to better understand how the virus spreads, the researchers captured samples “in different areas of two Wuhan hospitals during the COVID-19 outbreak in February and March 2020.”
Then they identified the genetic markers of the virus in airborne droplets, many with diameters smaller than one ten-thousandth of an inch — which could potentially stay airborne for several hours.
“Those are going to stay in the air floating around for at least two hours,” Linsey Marr, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech who was not involved with the Nature paper, told the New York Times. “ It strongly suggests that there is potential for airborne transmission. ”
However, the scientists warned that the presence of COVID-19 RNA — the genetic blueprint for the virus — does not mean that these airborne droplets are infectious.
To date, most efforts to stop the spread of the virus, such as social distancing, have been based on the belief the virus is not transmitted through the air. If it was found conclusively that the virus was transmissible through the air, it would significantly strengthen the case for mandatory mask-wearing to stop the spread of COVID-19.
The researchers, who come from a variety of Chinese universities and laboratories, found that the concentration of the coronavirus in aerosols in isolation wards and patient rooms was very low due to good ventilation, but found that it was much higher in confined spaces, like patients’ toilet areas.
The report also found elevated levels in the areas where doctors and nurses took off their personal protective equipment (PPE), suggesting that droplets that had landed on the surface of the gear could be knocked back into the air.