URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006889932
ID : GPHN2020050200070

Date : 2020-05-01 21:37:00
Title : Coastal First Nations and municipalities vow continued COVID-19 enforcement, potential Hwy 16 checkpoint
Ariticle : 
First Nations from Haida Gwaii, along with municipal leaders from the north and central coasts, say they will continue to protect their communities in the absence of provincial or federal travel restrictions.
The Lax Kw'alaams people from the Tsimshian Nation, whose reserve lands cross Highway 16, say they're preparing to set up a checkpoint along the highway between Terrace and Prince Rupert to monitor for non-essential travellers and curb any potential spread of COVID-19.
"We cannot let this virus come into our community; there is just too much at risk for our people," said Garry Reece, the mayor of Lax Kw'alaams.
Similar to other smaller communities, Reece says the health-care system simply isn't adequately equipped to handle an outbreak.
He says his community of around 700 is on lockdown and many other members who live in Prince Rupert aren't even allowed to visit, yet non-essential travellers are still trying to gain access. And while the province is poised to begin loosening some restrictions, Reece says it's important to remain vigilant because "all it takes is one person."
The Lax Kw'alaams council hasn't solidified a date for the checkpoint, but says it's willing to proceed if the government doesn't take action.
The mayor says he has reached out to both Victoria and Ottawa.
Perceived lack of government support
Many communities in the region, including the Haida Nation, say they have received no support for their joint letter issued April 6 that called on both levels of government to stand behind local travel restrictions in place to prevent the spread of the virus.
"We cannot forget the ravages of past pandemics and will do everything we can to prevent a repeat of the past," said Marilyn Slett, the Heiltsuk Nation's chief councillor in a statement.
Many of these communities have developed strategies including blockades and checkpoints to prevent non-essential travel by non-residents.
And they say the issue has only been compounded by the province's recent decision to classify fishing and hunting as essential services, because it brings non-residents into First Nations' territories to fish and hunt.
The pressure is increasing, they say, as clusters of coronavirus cases are identified in some communities, like Alert Bay.
Slett says Canada and B.C. can support local First Nations by "respecting our laws, co-ordinating with our government action and sharing resources that are commensurate with the unique needs of our communities."
Barry Pages, the chair of the North Coast Regional District, agrees that municipal governments have been disappointed by the lack of action.
"We need local responses that work for our communities and B.C. has not provided the backing needed," he said.
"It took a tragedy [in Alert Bay] for the province to permit the state of local emergency, and communities are taking a proactive approach to protecting our residents here on the North Coast."
Checkpoints, protests, curfews
On April 27, hundreds of Haida Gwaii locals protested the arrival of visitors on a B.C. Ferries ship. However, the RCMP says none of the 32 passengers who disembarked from the vessel were non-essential visitors.
But it highlights the heightened concern in the region over the fear of a COVID-19 outbreak.
That same day, provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry remarked that self governing First Nations have the right to make decisions to protect their communities.
From the outset of the pandemic, First Nations have taken matters into their own hands.
The Council of the Haida Nation enacted its own emergency measures more than a month ago including curfews and travel restrictions for non-residents.
And the Heiltsuk Nation on B.C.'s Central Coast has also issued a bylaw banning all non-locals except essential workers.
It has been monitoring its coastline to keep travellers in yachts and sailboats from disembarking.