URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892848
ID : GPHN2020050200164

Date : 2020-05-02 09:35:00
Title : Coronavirus: All of Delhi under red zone, 223 new cases on Friday, says minister Satyendra Jain
Ariticle : 
Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Saturday said that the national capital has a total of 3,738 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 223 cases were reported on Friday. "1,167 people have recovered so far, 49 people are under treatment in the ICU and five people are on ventilator," he said.
Satyendra Jain further said that all the 11 districts in Delhi, where more than 10 novel coronavirus cases have been reported, have been classified a "red zone" and the exemptions given in these zones will be as per the government's guidelines.
On the issue of stranded migrant labourers, Satyendra Jain said that the Delhi government is currently in talks with other states in the matter.
"We are in talks with other state governments and will request them for special trains to carry migrants to their native states," he said.
"We will provide medical and logistic care as well. We have already sent a bus to bring back students from Kota," Satyendra Jain further said.
Satyendra Jain also reiterated the success of plasma therapy among patients in Delhi.
"People who were administered plasma therapy have been discharged now. There were positive results of the therapy," he said.
Satyendra Jain also informed that the government has now ordered the opening of the Azad Mandi for 24 hours to avoid any gathering at a particular time.
In an order on Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs extended the nationwide lockdown till May 17. The MHA has now permitted a number of activities based on the classification of districts into red, orange and green. Directives mentioned in the order will come into effect on May 4 onwards.
The MHA has identified red zones as districts with the highest caseload contributing to 80 per cent of Covid-19 cases of each state or a district with a doubling rate of less than four days. Here are the activities allowed in red zones.
IndiaToday.in has plenty of useful resources that can help you better understand the coronavirus pandemic and protect yourself. Read our comprehensive guide (with information on how the virus spreads, precautions and symptoms), watch an expert debunk myths, check out our data analysis of cases in India, and access our dedicated coronavirus page. Get the latest updates here.
ALSO READ | How experimental novel coronavirus vaccines plan to take on Sars-CoV-2 and its spikes ALSO READ | Coronavirus: India extends limited lockdown till May 17, tally climbs to 35,365 ALSO WATCH | Impact of lockdown extension; special trains for stranded, more