URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907948
ID : GPHN2020050500127

Date : 2020-05-05 04:46:00
Title : "The Battle of Santiago" coming against the bug
Ariticle : 
Due to the explosive increase in infected and deceased in the Metropolitan Region, caused by the coronavirus, the Ministry of Health made the decision on Sunday to tighten the health measures – those that were deepened yesterday, to which new quarantines were added and war was declared to the bug, in what Minister Jaime Mañalich called "The Battle of Santiago".
And it is that as a result of the irresponsibility of those who do not respect the confinements, curfews, social estrangement or the use of masks, the relapse of health measures resulting from the new normal, have caused them to turn on alarms, especially in the Metropolitan Region, where more than 80% of the new cases are concentrated. The clandestine festival at which 400 people were summoned in broad curfew this weekend was the drop that overflowed the glass (p. 4).
"The Santiago thing catches the eye. It's one thing to see papers and some of what's going on on the streets. The measures are not being respected," Mañalich said after his weekend report.
"If we do not exert the 'Battle of Santiago' forcefully, this war will be lost."
Quarantine.
One of the most important measures announced was to advance new quarantines, especially in the Metropolitan Region.
Both Cerrillos, Quilicura – from the train line to the west-, and Recoleta, as well as the change to total quarantine of the commune of Santiago that remained with the measure only to the north of Matta Avenue, will be "valid from Tuesday at 10 o'clock at night", said yesterday the undersecretary of Crime Prevention, Katherine Martorell. In Recoleta only La Vega will be kept open, with certain restrictions, because yesterday they went to the piglet in the number of people buying.
"Since the Metropolitan Region is in a very important number, quarantined, cemeteries are excluded," the authority added.
During yesterday morning, Interior Minister Gonzalo Blumel participated in the Extended Political Committee meeting held every Monday. There he addressed the health issue, and as one of the participants in the event told him, among the health control measures to be adopted by the authority it was mentioned that at the current time the number of quarantined communes will be increased, that leave permits (which increase on weekends), will be reduced, and that patrolling and control of effective confinement will be strengthened.
More audits.
To combat the bug, at noon yesterday the Seremi of the RM, Paula Labra, led a quarantine compliance monitoring operation, trade in Calle 21 de Mayo with Rosas, where it was reported that a commercial house branch was banned from operating. By the weekend, Labra had decreed a ban on operation for three multistores in downtown Santiago, and an importer in Meiggs. According to the Metropolitan Seremía, 7 health summaries and prohibitions on the operation of retail stores have been made.
On the increase in auditing, the agency noted that it "results in a permanent patrol that will be carried out in quarantined communes, investigating establishments that fail to comply (...) will be reinforced with carabinieri, IDF and municipality, to verify that users and workers have the relevant safe conducts."
In addition, teams will be "available in quarantined communes and sectors", focused on trade with more audiences.
Sources consulted by The Fourth even pointed out that technology is going to be taken up to monitor, such as the use of drones.
"We're going to be stricter on stocks and the audits will be permanent," Seremi Paula Labra said.
La Vega inquarantine for agglomerations
The country's main distribution centre will work in two shifts and public revenue will be limited.
The news of the mandatory quarantine in Recoleta had its first repercussions yesterday in La Vega, where first hours a river of people arrived to stock up in their homes and others in order to buy things for their businesses.
"This is up to every Monday because the products that foreigners buy arrive, but with the announcement of quarantine this was uncovered (...) Every time the authorities decree quarantine in one area they all arrive in a duck," said la Vega's workers' spokesman Arturo Guerrero.
That is why in a meeting held by the Intendent of the Metropolitan Region, Felipe Guevara, with the mayor of Recoleta, Daniel Jadue, new measures were agreed for the operation of La Vega from Wednesday.
Among them is the opening of the venue in two shifts: one that operates from 5 to 10 in the morning for wholesalers, and from 10 onwards for general trade. Workers must wear gloves and masks on a mandatory basis, as must customers. Of the 18 doors will be opened only 6 and in them will make temperature control for those who enter.
"The supply chain is going to operate as a normal. They're going to have to ask for leave in the neighborhoods so they can go out and buy, but no crowding will be justified," Jadue said.
As for the mandatory enclosing measure, it is only necessary for wholesale workers to carry their commercial patent or the dispatch guide for transit, while for others the virtual police station permit is required, and only one person per household may enter.
Cemeteries prepare for Mother's Day
This Sunday thousands of Chileans will celebrate Mother's Day, and from now on the authorities warned that the cemeteries will be free from the mandatory quarantine measure for those who want to visit their relatives, always respecting the preventive measures of contagion, such as the use of mask.
This was confirmed by Undersecretary for Crime Prevention Katherine Martorell. "In the case of the weekend, we will work together with the cemeteries, particularly for Mother's Day, to make decisions that allow the health and life of people to be safeguarded," she said.
The post "The Battle of Santiago" that comes against the bug appeared first on La Cuarta.