URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006894023
ID : GPHN2020050300011

Date : 2020-05-02 03:40:00
Title : Sudbury's hospital responding well to pandemic: doctor - The Kingston Whig-Standard
Ariticle : 
More from Harold Carmichael
Published on: May 1, 2020 | Last Updated: May 1, 2020 11:31 PM EDT
Dr. Derek Manchuk is chief of critical care at Health Sciences North. He believes the hospital has done a good job responding to COVID-19. Supplied
Share Adjust Comment Print
Health Sciences North’s Intensive Care Unit has handled just three critically ill COVID-19 patients on ventilators to date and only one of them was from Greater Sudbury.
“We have only had three patients with COVID-19 in our ICU,” said Dr. Derek Manchuk, chief of critical care at Health Sciences North, in an interview Friday. “One (local) individual was able to leave the ICU, and then the hospital, and be discharged.
“The other two with COVID-19, both were transferred from another hospital (in Timmins) to access specialized services (at Health Sciences North). All of the North has done better than southern Ontario, but Timmins has been a (COVID-19) hot spot. The patients were both seriously ill, so they were transferred to us on ventilators.”
Manchuk said the two Timmins residents have been at Health Sciences North for about a week.
“One was able to come off the ventilator,” he said. “One is still on, but improving.”
As of Friday, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Greater Sudbury area stood at 58 (54 Greater Sudbury, two Sudbury District, and two Manitoulin Island) with 46 cases being resolved (44 recovered and two deaths).
As of 5 p.m. Thursday, a total of 3,827 tests had been conducted, with 3,135 being negative and 634 pending.
A man in his 70s died from COVID-19 April 2 after contracting the virus while travelling internationally.
On Friday, a woman in her 80s at St. Joseph’s Villa, also died as a result of the virus, which she had tested positive for on April 21. A coronavirus outbreak had been declared at the long-term care facility two days earlier after a staff member tested positive for the virus.
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in mid-March, Health Sciences North has dealt with a total of 19 COVID-19 positive cases, three of them receiving treatment in the ICU.
On Friday, Health Sciences North had the two COVID-19-positive Timmins residents in its ICU, with another six admitted patients (two in the ICU and four in other units) awaiting test results.
An anesthesiologist who works in the ICU, Manchuk said the hospital normally has 41 critical care beds, 29 of them in the two core ICU areas. The other 12 are in the Critical Care Unit and tend to be for cardiac patients and those with other serious health issues.
That hospital’s critical care beds total, however, is now at 92 due to a COVID-19 pandemic plan the hospital has put in place, said Manchuk.
“We have made a ‘surge’ plan in case of an Italy or New York situation,” he said. “We now have up to 92 critical care unit beds.”
Due to the cancellation of elective surgeries, the hospital also has freed-up resources to deal with possible COVID-19 positive cases in people who who show up feeling they have COVID-19 symptoms.
“It’s (ICU) normally full,” he said, adding that there are usually about 20 patients in that area recovering after having had major surgery to the brain, heart or vascular system.
If you test positive for COVID-19 and you get critically ill and need a ventilator to help breathe, expect to be on one for about two weeks, said Manchuk. Being on a ventilator — which helps your lungs get oxygen — means being intubated (having a long tube put down your throat into your lungs). The tube has to stay in until your condition improves considerably.
“We do anesthetize people, in terms of being to keep them comfortable,” he said. “We sedate them continually to ensure they are comfortable. We have to do (daily) assessments and adjust the sedation slightly. “Thankfully, patients don’t remember a lot when they are on a ventilator. It’s a pretty deep fog.”
Manchuk said Greater Sudbury has luckily not been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic as other areas.
“It’s not quite clear why we’ve fared better than other regions and why we have fared better than southern Ontario,” he said. “We would hope it’s the adherence to social distancing and measures put in place by the government. I think that has applied to Canada in general …
“Is it just Northerners are tougher than southerners? I don’t know. I think we are lucky so far in terms of the number of (COVID-19) patients we have seen. We have already prepared for a surge situation, but we have not seen one as of yet.”
Manchuk said it’s perplexing that the outbreaks of COVID-19 that have been happening in long-term care facilities in the south have not occurred to nearly the same extent in long-term care facilities up here. In the event a similar situation happens in the North, he said, Northern hospitals partnered up with local long-term care facilities in terms of staffing and other resources.
At Health Sciences North, a number of staff have also been “upskilled” in case they are needed to help deal with a COVID-19 surge in the community. There has also been training with regard to donning personal protective equipment to deal with COVID-19 patients.
“We do have safety officers – some of the staff in the ICU who watch and make sure it has been done right,” said Manchuk. “You have to put it on fast and take it off slow. You take it off slow to make sure you don’t contaminate yourself.”
Manchuk said that while COVID-19 is a severe viral pneumonia, similar to the first SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, which occurred 2002-2004), it is a hard virus to figure out.
“The trouble with COVID-19 is there’s no natural immunity right now in the population. The good news is the mortality (rate) is much lower than we had thought. The bad is you don’t know who you can get it from.”
Manchuk said it’s important that when governments start relaxing safeguards and lets the economy resume, it be done slowly.
“I think it’s important to do that in a step-by-step fashion that’s co-ordinated by provincial and national governments,” he said. “I think we are going to be having this (pandemic) for some time until there’s ‘herd immunity’ — until more than a significant portion of the population that’s immune or there’s a vaccine.”
As for having enough ventilators in case of a COVID-19 surge and a lot of very sick people ending up in the ICU, the hospital has 65 of them, some of the figure being set aside for use in emergency purposes. Those ventilators can be cleaned and reused once finished with, said Manchuk, but the hospital, if necessary, has access to a provincial supply of disposable ventilators to tap into.
Manchuk said all in all, he feels the hospital has a done a good job to date dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic.
“I just want to say the hospital is a safe place,” he said. “People need to know they can come to the hospital safely and get care, whether they have COVID-19 or not. I’m really proud of the work we have done.”
 