URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006883026
ID : GPHN2020050100057

Date : 2020-04-30 18:06:00
Title : FLU-HAN Trump says coronavirus ‘should never have escaped China’ as intel debunks claim killer disease was ‘manmade’
Ariticle : 
PRESIDENT Donald Trump on Thursday said the coronavirus “should never have been allowed to escape China” as US intelligence agencies say the virus is not manmade.
Trump told reporters the US “just got hit by a vicious virus” and described the global outbreak as a “tough situation for everyone.”
“All the loss, the death, it’s a terrible thing,” he said from the Oval Office during a meeting with New Jersey Gov Phil Murphy.
The president’s remarks came after the Office of the Director of National Intelligence announced earlier on Thursday the novel coronavirus was “not manmade or genetically modified.”
“The [Intelligence Community] will continue to rigorously examine emerging information and intelligence to determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan.”
The statement noted their determination “also concurs with the wide scientific consensus.”
When Trump was asked about the intelligence community statement at the White House, Trump said the agencies are “backing him up about when” he was told about the virus.
Experts overwhelmingly have said analysis of the new coronavirus’s genome rules out the possibility that it was created by humans, as some commentators have suggested.
Earlier this week, NBC News reported that Trump ordered intelligence agencies to find out what China and the World Health Organization knew about the outbreak to find out if they hid information from the rest of the world.
Trump has suspended funding to the WHO, claiming the organization is too “China-centric,” and on Wednesday said they “misled us” and “must have known more.”
“We knew things [WHO] didn’t know. Either they didn’t know or they didn’t tell us,” he said. “They’re literally a pipe organ for China.”
“We’ve given $500million … over many years and China is giving $38million — yet [WHO] seems to work for China?”
“They should have been in early and known what was going on,” the president added.
Fox News reported in recent weeks that the intelligence community has opened an investigation into the Wuhan Institute of Virology lab, and are trying to create “an accurate picture of what happened.”
Citing multiple sources, the news outlet reported that the virus started in the lab as part of China’s effort to show the country has the same capabilities of identifying and combatting viruses as the US.
Once US officials finish their investigation — which is said to be soon — the findings will be brought to the Trump administration, and from there, the White House would determine how to hold China accountable.
US officials say the American Embassy in Beijing flagged concerns about potential safety issues at the lab in Wuhan in 2018, but they have yet to find any evidence the virus originated there nearly two years later.
The Chinese government said on Thursday that any claims that the coronavirus was released from a laboratory are unfounded and purely fabricated out of nothing.
Experts estimate that China didn’t tell the public about the coronavirus until seven days after officials determined they were likely facing a pandemic, The Associated Press has reported.
President Xi Jinping warned the public about the virus on January 20 — when more than 3,000 people had been infected during almost a week of public silence.
During the six days the world was unaware of the virus, the city of Wuhan — the epicenter of the global outbreak — hosted a mass banquet for tens of thousands of people, and millions began to travel through for Lunar New Year celebrations.
On March 11, the virus was declared a global pandemic by the WHO.