URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006887541
ID : GPHN2020050100251

Date : 2020-05-01 11:21:00
Title : Experts warn that pandemic is expected to last at least two years
Ariticle : 
Researchers at the University of Minnesota warn that the pandemic of the new coronavirus is expected to return periodically, for waves, at least until 2022. The pandemic of the new coronavirus is expected to be about two years old and will not be controlled until about two-thirds of the world's population is immune, according to a group of experts at the U.S. University of Minnesota.
In a report cited by Bloomberg, experts at the University of Minnesota's Center for Infectious Disease Research say that because of its ability to spread to people who don't appear to be sick, the virus may be harder to control than influenza, the cause of most pandemics in recent history.
At a time when several countries, including in Europe, are beginning to relax the restriction measures, after a multi-week confinement, researchers warn that the coronavirus could continue for waves at least until 2022, so the population should not think that the danger has ended.
"Government communications should incorporate the concept that this pandemic will not end soon," they stress, "and that people need to be prepared for possible periodic resurgences of the disease over the next two years."
Several potential treatments for covid-19 are already under study at the moment, and there could be a vaccine later this year.However, the report points out that there were no large amounts of vaccines available against the 2009-2010 influenza pandemic until after the outbreak peaked in the US. And that, with them, 1.5 million cases and 500 deaths were prevented in that country alone.
The report was written by the director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research at the University of Minnesota, Michael Osterholm, and medical director Kristen Moore, John Barry, public health historian at Tulane University, and Marc Lipsitch, an epidemiologist at the Harvard School of Public Health.
 
The covid-19 pandemic has claimed more than 230,000 deaths globally and affected more than 3.2 million people in 195 countries and territories.
About 908,000 patients were considered cured.
The disease is transmitted by a new coronavirus detected in late December in Wuhan, a city in central China.