URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006897580
ID : GPHN2020050300100

Date : 2020-05-03 08:08:00
Title : Rising cases dim hopes for shutdown relief Cases
Ariticle : 
As Pennsylvania prepares to begin to reopen 24 counties this week after a statewide shutdown, the number of cases and deaths continues to grow in areas harder hit by the coronavirus, including the Lehigh Valley.
The state Department of Health announced 1,334 newly confirmed coronavirus cases in Pennsylvania as of Saturday morning, for a total of 48,305 cases statewide. Of the positive cases, 2,674 patients are hospitalized and 550 of those patients are on ventilators, Health Secretary Dr. Rachel Levine said during the daily media briefing.
Lehigh County has 2,896 confirmed cases, followed by Northampton County with 2,182 cases.
There were 64 more deaths reported. The statewide COVID-19 death toll is now at 2,418 people. All of those are adult patients.
Meanwhile, Lafayette College has
announced its first case of the COVID-19 coronavirus illness.
The case was confirmed Wednesday in a student who'd been living off campus for the prior two weeks with "very limited contact with any individuals on campus," wrote Dr. Jeffrey Goldstein, the Easton school's director of health services.
"The individual is doing well and we wish the student a full and rapid recovery," Goldstein wrote Wednesday to the campus community.
Lafayette says it is following protocols for testing, isolating and contact-tracing on campus, in coordination with the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
Lafayette in March moved to remote learning for the rest of this semester.
While the state reports the Lehigh Valley death toll at 177 people, the counties have each reported passing the 100-person threshold.
On Friday, Lehigh County reported it had 111 COVID-19 deaths of its residents reported to the county coroner. Northampton County reported 118 deaths, with 107 of them county residents.
Ten counties now have death tolls of more than 100 people, with Philadelphia topping the list with 422 people dead from COVID-19, and Montgomery County second with a death toll of 369 people.
To date, 187,071 patients have tested negative in the state.
During Saturday's daily virtual news conference, Levine was asked repeatedly about the counties set to begin reopening on Friday. She stressed the decisions on which counties can reopen were made county by county, and not regionally.
"Yellow means caution," she said, and social distancing, wearing masks, washing hands and using hand sanitizer will continue.
COVID-19 is a virus transmitted from respiratory droplets, either through the air or on surfaces, after being in close contact with someone for a long period of time, usually more than 10 minutes, Levine said.
Population density is a significant role in the spread of the virus, which is why Philadelphia has the most cases, she added.
In terms of which businesses are allowed to reopen during the different phases, services like personal trainers, licensed massage therapists, barbershops and hair salons cannot provide those services from 6 feet away, and "they will not be able to participate in their activities in the yellow zone," she said.
"We don't want to treat them unfairly and we don't feel we are treating them unfairly," she said. "We are dealing with an extremely contagious virus, and a very dangerous virus and a global pandemic. We have to take care of the public's safety."
As New Jersey took a big — but cautious — step forward by allowing parks and golf courses to reopen, officials Saturday reported another 2,912 new positive tests for the coronavirus and 205 additional deaths in New Jersey.
That brings the statewide total to at least 123,717 cases, including at least 7,742 deaths attributed to COVID-19, since the outbreak began March 4.
"The new case numbers are starting to rise again," Gov. Phil Murphy said during his afternoon press briefing Saturday. "This has been a tough week as it relates to fatalities we have had."
Murphy noted the uptick in numbers may be because more people are being tested. He also said the rates of infection and hospitalizations were slowing in many parts of the Garden State, which is still home to the second-most coronavirus cases and deaths in the United States.
The state with the most coronavirus infections New York. During each of the past two days, New Jersey reported more COVID-19 deaths than New York, but on Saturday the Garden State's new one-day fatality number was lower than its neighboring state.
The new numbers come as New Jersey enters its seventh week of Murphy's orders for residents to stay home and for nonessential businesses to close to slow the virus's spread. Unemployment and business losses have been widespread in that time.
But Murphy enacted his first major change Saturday, as state parks, county parks and golf courses were allowed to reopen at dawn — with some restrictions — for the first time since early April.
Park visitors are still required to practice social distancing, and the governor said police would be patrolling parks to make sure they comply. Early Saturday afternoon, Murphy said the reports from parks had been "so far so good."