URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006879064
ID : GPHN2020043000113

Date : 2020-04-30 04:43:00
Title : Coronavirus in Argentina: investigate whether an asymptomatic mother infected her 11-month-old baby
Ariticle : 
An 11-month-old baby tested positive for coronavirus and recovered in a private sanatorium in the town of Ituzaingó, although her mother did not have the disease, so doctors are investigating whether her parent could have passed it on even if she did not develop the symptoms.
The strange case was spread by the Sanatorio del Oeste of the aforementioned town of Bonaerense, which in a statement confirmed that four days ago a minor patient who tested positive for coronavirus and who recovered in good condition entered.
"The truth has no information on how it could have happened, it could be inferred that the baby did not get it from the mother or that the mother has already passed the process of the disease and now she is cured, because the test gave her negative," said a spokesman for the sanatorium.
He also said: "The baby is in very good general condition. We'll take the test and, if that test pays negative, we'll discharge you." He also stated that the only person close to the baby who had the test went to the mother and that if the family approaches it "will be able to know if they should quarantine at home."
In recent days, the infectious physician Eduardo López (MN 37586) clarified that "during the incubation period the individual is usually asymptomatic and generally spreads little or no contagious". He also emphasized: "Sometimes the first symptoms are very banal, like a bit of a sore throat and yet the person already spreads."
Finally, he noted that "while children do not acquire the disease or do it very mildly, they do transmit it."
His colleague Omar Sued, director of research at Fundación Guest (MN 91262), considered: "The virus affects children, but does not produce serious forms of the disease or mortality in them, so many may have become infected and have not had high fevers or large symptoms and therefore were not reported."
It should be noted that according to the experts COVID-19 seems not to affect children and the age range of 0 to 9 years, since the reported cases do not exceed 1% and mortality is 0%.
The first case of an infected minor in the country was recorded in the city of Resistencia, in Chaco Province, where a baby became infected with the virus of a relative, who also tested positive after returning from one of the countries considered as a "risk zone".
Read on:
Coronavirus in Argentina: UNICEF council to make quarantine of children and adolescents more flexible
A Month of Quarantine: Babies Born While Isolation and Grandparents Who Know Them by Video Call
Coronavirus in Argentina: a baby saintfesino was given a covid with her middle name
Coronavirus in Argentina: newborns will access their parents' health coverage