URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912282
ID : GPHN2020050600028

Date : 2020-05-05 17:06:00
Title : Businesses warned not to hike prices
Ariticle : 
Maseru, May 5 -- Ministry of Trade and Industry through its Principal Secretary (PS) Soaile Mochaba has appealed to the public to report businesses which have increased food prices during the imposed lockdown period.
The lockdown aims to combat the spread of the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak that is having a significant impact on the economy of Lesotho and across the globe as a result of low economic activities taking place as many businesses have been suspended.
In an exclusive interview with Informative Newspaper Mochaba said they are aware of general complaints from consumers about price increases but urged consumers to formally report this businesses at the Trade ministry or by dialling 59199797/59536238. "As the ministry it is impossible for us to check every business hence we are asking the public to help so that we stop such businesses from violating consumers' rights," he said.
He added that the consumers need to have a name of that business, a receipt showing the increased price and also provide evidence of the previous price of the same product and the location of the business. According to Mochaba this will assist the ministry to bring such businesses to order, adding that violating the regulations set for businesses can lead to a business closure.
He also mentioned that the ministry conducted some investigations on price increases before the lockdown could be put in place. "Since many consumers are complaining about price increase on maize meal, before the lockdown when we were doing our researches, we discovered that some maize meal brands like Itau maize meal had already increased their prices and it's not a local brand, which makes it difficult for us to control its prices because people who distribute it in the country buy it from South Africa (SA) and its prices have increased from SA," he noted.
Mochaba said Lesotho Flour meals had also increased prices of bread flour. He pointed out that the flour meal notified the public that there will be a price increment on bread flour prices beginning from April since the prices had gone up where they import wheat. He said they have dealt with business that were reported to have increased prices and will continue doing so as long as they are provided with clear information. He also pleaded with the business owners to continue using normal prices and not take advantage during this unprecedented health crisis.
Consumer Protection Association (CPA) Executive Director Nkareng Letsie said the association is not aware of cases of price increase on food items.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Informative News.