URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872507
ID : GPHN2020042900227

Date : 2020-04-29 10:01:00
Title : Novel coronavirus could keep coming back every year like flu, warn top Chinese scientists
Ariticle : 
The novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 could keep coming back every year like the flu, according to top Cjinese scientists in the field.
Novel coronavirus could keep coming back every year like flu, warn top Chinese scientists
New Delhi: Top Chinese scientists have warned that the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 could keep coming back every year like the flu. The outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) originating in Wuhan, China, has rapidly spread worldwide, claiming at least 214,451 lives so far. More than 3,068,330 people have been infected in 193 countries and territories.
The experts warned that it is unlikely that the virus would be eradicated, adding that it is difficult to contain the transmission of asymptomatic carriers who can spread the virus without knowing it. Several scientists from across the world have said that the SARS-CoV-2 virus could become a seasonal illness.
During a media briefing on Monday, a group of Chinese viral and health researchers said that the SARS-CoV-2 virus, just like its close cousin SARS did 17 years ago, is unlikely to disappear, reported TIME.
“This is very likely to be an epidemic that co-exists with humans for a long time, becomes seasonal and is sustained within human bodies,” Jin Qi, director of the Institute of Pathogen Biology at China’s top medical research institute, the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, was quoted as saying.
This warning is echoed by many experts in the field across the world, including in India, who agreed that the infection could end up like the seasonal flu. Earlier, Anthony Fauci, the director of US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned Americans to prepare themselves for a second wave of COVID-19 crisis.
As COVID-19 spread rapidly across the globe, it was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11. However, there’s no specific antiviral agent or vaccine for the disease, although several therapies are under investigation in an attempt to help combat the respiratory illness.