URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006869537
ID : GPHN2020042900131

Date : 2020-04-29 04:01:00
Title : New Canadian modelling forecasts more cases, deaths from COVID-19
Ariticle : 
OTTAWA, April 28 (Xinhua) -- The COVID-19 spread has slowed down in Canada, but the country is not out of the woods yet, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said at his daily news conference on Tuesday.
 "The measures we have taken so far are working. In fact, in many parts of the country, the curve has flattened. But we are not out of the woods yet," Trudeau said, urging Canadians to stay the course.
 Early Tuesday, Canada's Public Health Agency released new modeling that reveal the pandemic's impact on Canada is somewhat worse than projected earlier this month.
 The agency forecasts up to 66,835 cases and 3,883 deaths across Canada by May 5, compared with its one-week projection of 31,850 cases and 700 deaths on April 9.
 As of Tuesday night, a total of 50,026 cases and 2,859 deaths have been reported across the country.
 The agency said in its new modelling that growth in caseload is being driven by the provinces of Ontario, Quebec and Alberta, which account for 92 percent of the total. Most of the COVID-19 deaths (79 percent) resulted from outbreaks in long-term care and seniors' homes across Canada.
 The good news is the spread of the virus began to slow, from the doubling of the country's caseload every three to five days in early April to every 16 days at present, Theresa Tam, Canada's chief public health officer, told a daily government briefing on Tuesday.
 As with the April 9 modeling report, Tuesday's forecast also presents a "worst case scenario" for Canada where, without any public health controls, up to 80 percent of the country's population, or just over 30 million people -- could be infected with COVID-19.
 But even with such strong measures as physical distancing in place, as much as 10 percent of Canada's population (nearly 3.8 million people) could end up COVID-positive, and 44,000 people could die of the associated disease.
 "We're in the middle of the most serious public health emergency Canada has ever seen...if we lift measures too quickly, we might lose the progress we've made," said Trudeau.
 Following his morning briefing to reporters, the prime minister participated in a video conference of a special parliamentary committee to address the COVID-19 pandemic -- the first time the House of Commons has sat in a virtual setting in its 152-year history.
 Trudeau and Canada's 13 provincial and territorial premiers also released a joint statement on Tuesday in which they outlined a "shared public-health approach to support restarting the economy" of the country, which includes "easing restrictions gradually."
 But not all of the officials are on the same page when it comes to the timing of that phased approach, particularly in the case of the premiers of Canada's two largest provinces.
 On Monday, Ontario Premier Doug Ford outlined what he called "a road map, not a calendar" when businesses and services could open and resume over a three-stage process without setting any dates.
 Also on Monday, Quebec Premier Francois Legault announced that schools would reopen next month, and during his daily briefing on Tuesday, said that "various sectors and businesses" will follow suit in the "coming weeks."
 Meanwhile, Dennis King, premier of Canada's smallest province of Prince Edward Island, announced Tuesday that the first phase of the reopening of businesses, services and public spaces will begin on Friday.
Enditem