URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872083
ID : GPHN2020042900219

Date : 2020-04-29 07:07:00
Title : Johnson County restrictions hold as 77 counties set for partial reopenings
Ariticle : 
As some counties prepare to partially reopen, public health officials are asking residents of Johnson County — where eased restrictions will not apply — to maintain precautions.
On April 26, Johnson County had 437 confirmed cases. The next day, the county had 11 more cases, demonstrating the region's continued growth in COVID-19 patients.
The Iowa Department of Public Health reported 508 additional positive cases on Tuesday, bringing the state's total to 6,378. Gov. Kim Reynolds has said the number of positive cases will continue rising as testing increases.
Still, some restrictions will be lifted Friday in 77 of the state's 99 counties. Malls, restaurants and fitness centers are among the businesses in those 77 counties that can partially reopen. Other closures will remain in place until May 15.
Hospitals to start nonessential surgeries
Late last week, Reynolds gave hospitals throughout Iowa the green light to restart nonessential surgeries on April 27 if they followed strict guidelines. She also said farmers' markets could reopen, also under strict social-distancing guidelines.
Officials from the University of Iowa Hospitals & Clinics and Mercy Iowa City said they would resume nonessential surgeries.
As of Monday, UIHC was caring for 27 adult patients and one pediatric patient for COVID-19, said Dr. Theresa Brennan, chief medical officer of the University of Iowa Hospitals & Clinics.
She said the hospital would resume surgeries they consider to be essential and will continue using preventative measures including the wearing of personal protective equipment.
UIHC has also broadened its testing for the coronavirus to asymptomatic patients who receive treatment or surgery at the hospital, according to Brennan.
Regarding how the lifting of restrictions could affect the state, Brennan said, "reopening certainly could affect the spread" of COVID-19. She urged people to social distance and wash their hands frequently.
Margaret Reese, public information officer for Mercy Iowa City, said the hospital will restart nonessential surgeries on May 4. The hospital currently has six patients with COVID-19 and is waiting on the test results of five additional patients.
This week, Mercy Iowa City began rapid testing, which allows test results to be completed in an hour, according to Reese.
"So patients who need to be admitted and or require emergency surgery will quickly receive the appropriate level of care," Reese said, adding that rapid testing also helps the hospital preserve PPE.
Farmers markets prepare
for business
Iowa City's farmers market won't be held in-person until at least July, said Juli Seydell Johnson, director of the Iowa City Parks and Recreation Department. The city will have an online option for many vendors beginning Friday.
The Coralville Farmers Market will open on May 18, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Coralville Community Aquatic Center parking lot, said Matt Hibbard, recreation center supervisor of the Coralville Parks and Recreation Department.
He said the market will follow the governor's guidelines; for example, it won't allow the sale of prepared foods that would be eaten on site.
Kelli Andresen, the communications coordinator for Johnson County, provided additional updates from the cities of Solon, Swisher and University Heights:
The Solon Farmers Market will not open until June, and is scheduled for Tuesdays from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Swisher suspended its in-person market indefinitely. "For now, we have offered the use of our Facebook page to our vendors for direct contact with our customers," reads a city statement. "We are also exploring the possibility of using our location as a drop off point during certain hours, otherwise they can work directly with each other."
University Heights is preparing to open its farmers market on Melrose Avenue in June on Tuesdays.