URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006867936
ID : GPHN2020042900056

Date : 2020-04-28 16:51:00
Title : Features of 16,749 hospitalised UK patients with COVID-19 using the ISARIC WHO Clinical Characterisation Protocol
Ariticle : 
Advanced Search
Features of 16,749 hospitalised UK patients with COVID-19 using the ISARIC WHO Clinical Characterisation Protocol
View ORCID Profile Annemarie B Docherty, View ORCID Profile Ewen M Harrison, View ORCID Profile Christopher A Green, View ORCID Profile Hayley E Hardwick, View ORCID Profile Riinu Pius, View ORCID Profile Lisa Norman, View ORCID Profile Karl A Holden, View ORCID Profile Jonathan M Read, View ORCID Profile Frank Dondelinger, View ORCID Profile Gail Carson, View ORCID Profile Laura Merson, View ORCID Profile James Lee, View ORCID Profile Daniel Plotkin, View ORCID Profile Louise Sigfrid, View ORCID Profile Sophie Halpin, Clare Jackson, View ORCID Profile Carrol Gamble, View ORCID Profile Peter W Horby, View ORCID Profile Jonathan S Nguyen-Van-Tam, View ORCID Profile Jake Dunning, View ORCID Profile Peter JM Openshaw, View ORCID Profile J Kenneth Baillie, View ORCID Profile Malcolm Gracie Semple
doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.23.20076042
For correspondence: c.a.green.2@bham.ac.uk
Hayley E Hardwick
4 NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Emerging and Zoonotic Infections, and Institute of Infection and Global Health, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, University of Liverpool;
For correspondence: f.dondelinger@lancaster.ac.uk
Gail Carson
7 ISARIC Global Support Centre, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford;
For correspondence: gail.carson@ndm.ox.ac.uk
Laura Merson
For correspondence: laura.merson@ndm.ox.ac.uk
James Lee
7 ISARIC Global Support Centre, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford;
For correspondence: james.lee@ndm.ox.ac.uk
Daniel Plotkin
7 ISARIC Global Support Centre, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford;
For correspondence: daniel.plotkin@ndm.ox.ac.uk
Louise Sigfrid
7 ISARIC Global Support Centre, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford;
For correspondence: j.k.baillie@ed.ac.uk
Malcolm Gracie Semple
15 NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Emerging and Zoonotic Infections, and Institute of Translational Medicine, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, University of Liverpool
Preview PDF
Abstract
Objective: To characterize the clinical features of patients with severe COVID-19 in the UK. Design:  Prospective observational cohort study with rapid data gathering and near real-time analysis, using a pre-approved questionnaire adopted by the WHO. Setting: 166 UK hospitals between 6th February and 18th April 2020.  Participants: 16,749 people with COVID-19. Interventions: No interventions were performed, but with consent samples were taken for research purposes. Many participants were co-enrolled in other interventional studies and clinical trials. Results: The median age was 72 years [IQR 57, 82; range 0, 104], the median duration of symptoms before admission was 4 days [IQR 1,8] and the median duration of hospital stay was 7 days [IQR 4,12]. The commonest comorbidities were chronic cardiac disease (29%), uncomplicated diabetes (19%), non-asthmatic chronic pulmonary disease (19%) and asthma (14%); 47% had no documented reported comorbidity. Increased age and comorbidities including obesity were associated with a higher probability of mortality. Distinct clusters of symptoms were found: 1. respiratory (cough, sputum, sore throat, runny nose, ear pain, wheeze, and chest pain); 2. systemic (myalgia, joint pain and fatigue); 3. enteric (abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhoea). Overall, 49% of patients were discharged alive, 33% have died and 17% continued to receive care at date of reporting. 17% required admission to High Dependency or Intensive Care Units; of these, 31% were discharged alive, 45% died and 24% continued to receive care at the reporting date. Of those receiving mechanical ventilation, 20% were discharged alive, 53% died and 27% remained in hospital.  Conclusions: We present the largest detailed description of COVID-19 in Europe, demonstrating the importance of pandemic preparedness and the need to maintain readiness to launch research studies in response to outbreaks.  Trial documentation: Available at https://isaric4c.net/protocols . Ethical approval in England and Wales (13/SC/0149), and Scotland (20/SS/0028). ISRCTN (pending).
Competing Interest Statement
AB Docherty reports grants from Department of Health and Social Care,  during the conduct of the study; grants from Wellcome Trust,  outside the submitted work; CA Green reports grants from DHSC National Institute of Health Research UK,  during the conduct of the study; F Dondelinger is due to start a position at F. Hoffmann - La Roche on 4th May 2020; PW Horby reports grants from Wellcome Trust / Department for International Development / Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, grants from NIHR ,  during the conduct of the study; JS Nguyen-Van-Tam reports grants from Department of Health and Social Care, England,  during the conduct of the study;  and is seconded to the Department of Health and Social Care, England (DHSC); PJM Openshaw reports personal fees from Consultancy, grants from MRC, grants from EU Grant, grants from NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, grants from MRC/GSK, grants from Wellcome Trust, grants from NIHR (HPRU), grants from NIHR Senior Investigator, personal fees from European Respiratory Society, grants from MRC Global Challenge Research Fund,  outside the submitted work;  and The role of President of the British Society for Immunology was an unpaid appointment but travel and accommodation at some meetings is provided by the Society; JK Baille reports grants from Medical Research Council UK; MG Semple reports grants from DHSC National Institute of Health Research UK, grants from Medical Research Council UK, grants from Health Protection Research Unit in Emerging & Zoonotic Infections, University of Liverpool,  during the conduct of the study; other from Integrum Scientific LLC,  Greensboro, NC, USA,  outside the submitted work. EM Harrison, H Ardwick, J Dunning, R Pius, L Norman, KA Holden, JM Read, G Carson, L Merson, J Lee, D Plotkin, L Sigfred, S Halpin, C Jackson, C Gamble, have nothing to declare.
Clinical Trial