URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006882054
ID : GPHN2020050100030

Date : 2020-04-30 15:02:00
Title : A Chinese laboratory already produces a possible vaccine against the virus
Ariticle : 
CORRECTION: Corrects typographical error in first paragraph ///Beijing, 30 Apr 2020 (AFP) - In a laboratory in north Beijing, a man perhaps possesses the expected antidote. Dressed in a white robe, it exhibits one of the first experimental vaccines against the new coronavirus. Sinovac Biotech is one of four Chinese laboratories authorized to undertake clinical trials. Although its vaccine has not yet been tested, the private group says it is ready to produce 100 million doses a year to fight the virus, which appeared in China at the end of 2019.The pharmacist may be safe. In 2009, it advanced its competitors and became the first in the world to release an H1N1 swine flu vaccine. In their vast Changping facilities, on the capital's large periphery, laboratory technicians control the quality of the experimental vaccine, based on inert pathogens, already produced in thousands of specimens. And it even has a name: "Coronavac".
 - Tested in monkeys - While the treatment is still far from an approval, the manufacturer must demonstrate that it is capable of producing on a large scale and subjecting batches to the control of the authorities. Hence the production launch even before clinical trials are completed. In the midst of the world's race to find the long-awaited antidote, fewer than a dozen laboratories have now started human trials, according to the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.Among them Sinovac, which says it achieved promising results in monkeys, before administering their serum for the first time to 144 volunteers in mid-April in Jiangsu (east). But the laboratory founded in 2001 will not rule on the date on which its half-milliliter injection is likely to be marketed. "It's the question that everyone asks the sees," says Liu Peicheng, brand manager. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), vaccine production can take between 12 and 18 months. - Overseas Testing - The Chinese laboratory, which employs a thousand employees, expects to achieve the first results on the safety of its product by the end of June, as part of phase 1 and 2 trials, explains to AFP Meng Wining, Director of International Relations. These tests are to verify that the vaccine is not dangerous to humans. To ensure its effectiveness, a phase 3 test should be performed on carriers of the virus. The problem is that "only a few cases are reported up to date in China," Meng says. Unless there is a second epidemic wave in Chinese territory, the group will have to test it with positive diagnoses abroad." We are currently in contact with several countries in Europe and Asia," he says. "A phase 3 trial typically involves several thousand people. It's not easy to get this figure, in any country," he warns. - "We do not waste a minute" - The group undertook in southern Beijing the construction of a production factory with a capacity of 100 million doses, which must be in operation before the end of the year." We work day and night, we do three shifts, which means we don't waste a minute," says Meng, taken to the world population, a possible Sinovac vaccine would not be enough to protect the planet. But Meng says his Nasdaq-listed group is open to "collaborations" with its foreign partners, to which it sells its flu or hepatitis vaccines. Being the first to provide a remedy against COVID-19 would be a kind of revenge for China, eager for it to be forgotten that the pandemic arose in its soil." We received a lot of support from the Chinese government," Meng says. "Not a lot of money," but cooperation with public institutes from which Sinovac gets viral strains. Beijing also approved the clinical trial of three other vaccinesexperimental: one launched by the Military School of Medical Sciences and the CanSino biotechnology group, another by the Institute of Biological Products and the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the city where the new coronavirus was born, and the last by the China Biotics group, which began trials tuesday between 32 volunteers.bar/sbr/lch/bc/zm -------------------------------------------------------------