URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006870820
ID : GPHN2020042900201

Date : 2020-04-29 05:46:00
Title : No proof children's illness is linked to virus, insist doctors
Ariticle : 
Mystery syndrome
A MAJOR row has broken out over claims of a mystery illness in children potentially caused by coronavirus after leading doctors insisted the link was not yet backed up by firm evidence.
Matt Hancock, the Health Secretary, ordered an urgent investigation into a reported rise in children needing intensive care after contracting Covid-19 after the NHS issued an alert to GPs.
It led to calls for schools to stay closed and panic among parents.
But Great Ormond Street Hospital paediatricians last night cast doubt on the claims while revealing that admissions for children suffering similar symptoms were down on last year.
In some cases, they added, doctors had been mistakenly diagnosing sick children with Covid-19, leading to dangerous delays in treatment.
Around 20 children have been diagnosed with the syndrome so far, it is understood. Of those around half tested positive for Covid-19. At least 12 have been transferred to intensive care.
The NHS alert likened the syndrome to Kawasaki disease, a condition that causes leaky blood vessels in children.
But scientists and doctors advising Societi, the UK Kawasaki Disease Foundation, last night said the data did not yet point to a link with Covid-19. The group, including doctors from Great Ormond Street and Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, welcomed the investigation but said admissions for Kawasaki disease had fallen compared to the same period last year.
A source on the committee said there was a level of "anger" at the decision to make the NHS alert public before gathering enough evidence to prove a link. Prof Simon Kenny, the NHS national clinical director for children and young people, said it was important "that clinicians are made aware of any potential emerging links". The Department of Health said officials were "not aware" of any deaths from the syndrome.