URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006879019
ID : GPHN2020043000118

Date : 2020-04-30 04:45:00
Title : The number of Covid-19 contagions in Mexico can be up to 50 times higher than reported: Julio Frenk
Ariticle : 
The Sentinel sampling method underlying the Ministry of Health's Covid-19 strategy has methodological flaws that prevent clarity as to what time of the epidemic we are or where the red spotlights are located to attack it correctly.
This was expressed by the former Secretary of Health, Julio Frenk, noting that in principle the multiplier for exposing the true number of coronavirus contagions is not eight, but should be 30 or 50 times more of the confirmed cases reported.
"In the face of erratic policies, uncertainty is enormous and this stops effectiveness because we don't know where the red spotlights are, and apart from the reluctance to do more testing, we don't know the number of cases and we don't have a good indication of the fatality rate," he said. Around diagnosis, he stated, we are not only last in the OECD, but also in the last line of Latin America in number of tests as a percentage of the population.
He warned that failure to heed the learnings reported by other more advanced countries in the Covid-19 pandemic,it has also led to disadvantages and because of this there will be more deaths and suffering that could have been avoided if there had been a more successful, more timely and more transparent action.
"There are states where there are apparently more cases but you don't know if it's that or apply more evidence, and all that lack of transparent information is greatly limiting the response," Frenk said.
Dr. Frenk, now president of the University of Miami, spoke at the online press conference where several institutions announced the launch of an observatory on each country's public policies in Latin America for epidemic management, an initiative coordinated by Dr. Felicia Knaul,Funsalud's counselor and president of the Take it a Pecho Foundation.
Dr. Frenk, also referred to the high proportion of contagion among health personnel in the country due to the delay in the distribution of protective equipment. And in that case he said that we did not learn the lesson of Italy where it was precisely the same he had many doctors and nurses infected, but Mexico knowing it for months, could have avoided it.
In the same vein spoke Salomón Chertorivsky,also a former secretary of Health, who mentioned that the supposed mapping by municipalities is not real, because the sentinel method – "which is not even random sampling" – does not give you the capacity to have municipal representation. The question, he said, is where the health authority draws its interpretation that allows them to make inferences and know at what stage each municipality is.
On the insufficient number of evidence, it is inentendible, he said, because several months ago there could be doubts about the way forward, but from evidence from other countries where they worked, it was clear that we had to change course.
About the Latin American observatory of Covid-19 that can be consulted online it was reported that it has the support of a consortium of academics and researchers from institutions such as the Faculty of Medicine of UNAM, the CICS of the Anahuac University, the CIDE, the University of Miami, the Tufts University, the Mexican Society of Public Health, the Mexico Social Organization and the Takelo a Pecho Foundation.
[email protected]
Kg