URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006910095
ID : GPHN2020050500151

Date : 2020-05-05 10:13:00
Title : Historic data ‘shows risk of early relaxation’
Ariticle : 
One of the world’s top economists has suggested longer lockdowns of up to 12 weeks might be needed to stamp out COVID-19 amid new research that finds jurisdictions that resist tough restrictions won’t be spared economic pain.
As Australian and US states and territories consider lifting lockdowns after up to six weeks, renowned Harvard professor Robert Barro said the “lesson” for the coronavirus pandemic from the Spanish flu was that compulsory shutdowns needed to be in place for longer.
“Most likely, 12 weeks work much better than four to six weeks,” Professor Barro said.
The research was based on an analysis of the effectiveness of US states’ non-pharmaceutical interventions (school closures, bans on public gatherings etc) to Spanish flu over a century ago.
“The likely reason that the non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) implemented in 1918-1919 were ultimately not very successful in depressing overall deaths is that the NPIs were not maintained long enough,” he said.
The average duration of lockdowns imposed by states in 1919 was 36 days, according to the study, which also found more stringent NPIs “flattened the curve” but didn’t necessarily reduce the ultimate death count.
Separately, as part of what will be a growing torrent of academic research on the effectiveness of public health responses to the coronavirus, a team of economists at the University of California has found the recent spate of “shelter in place” orders, or lockdowns, were “not associated with higher joblessness” compared to states that didn’t issue.
More than 30 million Americans have filed for unemployment benefits since California shut down its economy in mid-March, followed by 39 other US states, amid fears the US will enter the biggest recession since the 1930s.
The economic study, which examined the impact of lockdowns for 70 countries and 50 US states, found evidence that the lockdowns reduced the number of COVID infections but not the number of deaths.
“States with a larger share of employment in jobs that can be done at home have lost fewer jobs,” the authors also concluded.
The study also found that the economies of states that tried to resist lockdowns would be hurt anyway. “People pay attention to news and events elsewhere, ­reacting with spontaneous social distancing,” the two economists, Zhixian Lin and Christopher Meissner, said.
Both studies follow calls by prominent economists in Australia to resist a “false distinction” ­between economic growth and public health outcomes, and not heed calls to end lockdowns early.
In separate analysis, also released on Tuesday, Macquarie Bank analysts concluded the Spanish flu, which killed about 12,000 Australians in the two years to 1919, was 300 times more deadly than the coronavirus in NSW, based on an examination of hospital admissions in Sydney during early 1919 and so far this year.
The Macquarie report also warned against lifting social distancing measures early:
“The No 1 lesson from the 1919 pandemic … showed lifting social distancing led to multiple outbreaks,” it said.