URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900735
ID : GPHN2020050400106

Date : 2020-05-03 23:41:00
Title : Report: China hid virus severity to hoard equipment
Ariticle : 
WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. authorities believe that China concealed the magnitude of the coronavirus outbreak—and how contagious the disease was—in order to grab the medical supplies needed to cope, according to intelligence documents.
Chinese officials intentionally "hid the severity" of the pandemic from the world in early January, according to a four-page report by the Department of Homeland Security dated May 1 and obtained The Associated Press. The announcement was made after President Donald Trump's administration has intensified its criticism of China, including Sunday's statements by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in which he holds Beijing accountable for the spread of the disease and demands accountability.
For their part, Washington detractors say the government's response to the virus was inadequate and slow. Trump's political opponents have accused the president and his government of lashing out at China, a geopolitical enemy but crucial U.S. trading partner, in an attempt to deflect criticism of the White House.
The analysis—which is not secret, but considered "for official use only"—underscores that while minimizing the severity of the coronavirus, China increased imports of medical equipment and reduced exports of the coronavirus. The Asian giant's authorities sought to cover up these actions by "denying that there were export restrictions and obfuscating and delaying the provision of information from their trade transactions," the analysis states.
The report also notes that Beijing did not inform the World Health Organization that coronavirus "was a contagious disease" for much of January, so that it could acquire medical equipment from abroad, and indicates that its imports of cover caps and surgical caps and gloves increased sharply.
Such conclusions are based on the 95% probability that changes in China's import and export activities would not fall within normal ranges, according to the report.
Trump has speculated that China might have unleashed the coronavirus because of some kind of horrible "mistake." The president's intelligence agencies say they continue to look at a notion put forward by Trump and his allies that the pandemic may have been the result of an accident in a Chinese lab.
In a Sunday interview with ABC's "This Week", Pompeo said he has no reason to believe that the virus was deliberately spread. However, he added, "remember that China has a history of infecting the world, and they have a history of operating laboratories that operate below the right standards."
___
The Associated Press journalist Matthew Lee contributed to this firm.