URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006899436
ID : GPHN2020050400061

Date : 2020-05-02 19:37:00
Title : Saskatchewan expands COVID-19 testing at long-term care homes - Global News
Ariticle : 
Saskatchewan expands COVID-19 testing at long-term care homes
Scroll back to top of the page
Back
By Mickey Djuric Global News
Posted May 2, 2020 3:33 pm
FILEIn this April 2, 2020, file photo a nurse holds a vial and a swab at a drive-up coronavirus testing station at a hospital in Seattle.
Ted S. Warren / AP Photo
Smaller font Descrease article font size
-A
Larger font Increase article font size
A+
Copy link
The province has expanded its testing for COVID-19 to prevent the spread of the virus.
Long-term care and personal care home residents are now being tested for COVID-19 upon admission or re-admission, said the Saskatchewan Health Authority on Saturday.
Residents and staff will also be tested if any other resident or staff at the same facility is deemed positive for COVID-19.
[ Sign up for our Health IQ newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]
The SHA says public health will be contacting those who need to get tested.
Prior to the expanded testing, residents needed to get a referral by calling 811. Typically, those who showed symptoms of the virus would get tested.
Trending Stories
READ MORE: Coronavirus: Health authorities declare outbreak in Beauval, Saskatchewan
“Testing is part of the Saskatch​​​ewan Health Authority offensive strategy to contain, delay and mitigate the spread of COVID-19,” said the SHA in a press release.
“Expanded testing has been implemented to align with the most recent evidence and consideration of practices in other jurisdictions. Saskatchewan is among the provinces with the widest access to testing.”
1:56
The long goodbye: These COVID-19 victims’ families opt to wait months or more for funerals
The long goodbye: These COVID-19 victims’ families opt to wait months or more for funerals
Questions about COVID-19? Here are some things you need to know:
Symptoms  can include fever, cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu. Some people can develop a more severe illness. People most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease. If you develop symptoms,  contact public health authorities .
To  prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve. They also recommend minimizing contact with others, staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out.
For full COVID-19 coverage from Global News,  click here .