URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892070
ID : GPHN2020050200145

Date : 2020-04-29 06:51:00
Title : Richmond State Supported Living Center reports virus-related death
Ariticle : 
Richmond State Supported Living Center reports virus-related deathFort Bend County Judge KP George confirmed April 22 a COVID-19-related death among residents of the Richmond State Supported Living Center (RSSLC). The case was one of two confirmed cases previously reported at the RSSLC, one of 13 state-run homes for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
"Our staff is working alongside Richmond State Supported Living Center staff to implement additional infection prevention and control measures to protect the residents and staff," Jacquelyn Minter, Fort Bend County Health and Human Services director, said in a statement March 31 announcing an "epidemiological investigation" at the facility.
However, George said the Texas Department of Health and Human Services (TDHHS) had taken over the investigation and no information about new cases was yet available. State officials are also currently investigating at the Denton State Supported Living Center where 114 active cases are confirmed among the residents and staff according to Denton County officials.
The Denton facility is the largest of the 13 state-run facilities and is home to 446 people and employs 1,727 full-time staffers.
Citing health privacy laws, state officials offered little information.
"We have received consent from an individual or guardian to acknowledge at least one positive case Richmond SSLC," Christine Man, TDHHS chief press officer, said in an email.
"Nothing is more important than the health and safety of our residents, our staff and the local community that is such a strong supporter of Richmond State Supported Living Center. We are working closely with Fort Bend County Health and Human Services and the Department of State Health Services and taking precautions to mitigate any spread of disease."
Mann said COVID-19 positive residents were being treated in separate homes from other RSSLC residents with staff assigned to solely to their care that are provided N95 face masks, face shields, gloves and gowns.
"This is a rapidly evolving situation and we will continue adapting our policies and procedures as necessary," Mann said.
The Richmond facility is the state's second largest facility and home to approximately 320 residents.
In addition, with over 1,300 full-time employees, RSSLC is the fourth largest employer in the City of Richmond.
Although the facility has been closed to family members and non-essential visitors since March 13, cars continue to line up at the front gate for temperature checks that allow admittance.
When contacted by email, Richmond city officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment as to whether there were concerns about the threat of community spread from the steady stream of people coming and going from the facility.
The Richmond facility serves a 13 county area that includes Austin, Brazoria, Chambers, Colorado, Fort Bend, Galveston, Hardin, Harris, Jefferson, Matagorda, Orange, Waller and Wharton.
knix@hcnonline.com