URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006882703
ID : GPHN2020050100113

Date : 2020-04-29 11:00:00
Title : BC Community Bat Program says bats could be in danger from us - Peachland News - Castanet.net
Ariticle : 
BC Community Bat Program says bats could be in danger from us
BC bats and COVID-19
Rob Gibson - Apr 29, 2020 / 4:00 am | Story: 298528
Photo: Sunshine Coast Wildlife Project
Healthy California Myotis in a building roost. Bats in buildings in B.C. are not linked to the COVID-19 outbreak.
As COVID-19 continues to take a terrible toll on the health of British Columbians, some are asking whether B.C.'s bats could be a potential carrier for the coronavirus.
Castanet turned to the BC Community Bat Program based in Peachland for more information on B.C. bats and COVID-19.
Mandy Kellner, program provincial coordinator says, "bats in B.C. do not have or spread SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-19 in humans). SARS-CoV-2 is not found in North American bat species at present."
There are no concerns about disease transmission with well-managed bat colonies in buildings, like the building in Peachland’s historic schoolhouse, where bats were discovered in large numbers during a restoration in 2012, or with free-flying bats, where there is no contact with humans or pets.
Transmission of COVID-19 goes from human to human, however, there are theoretical concerns about the possibility for transmission of SARS-CoV-2 from humans to bats and other animals.
Kellner says research is underway investigating the possibility of transmission from humans to other wildlife species, particularly mustelids (carnivorous mammals such as otters), felids (cats), and canids (wolves foxes, etc).
Kellner says, as with any wildlife,  t's important to avoid handling live bats. But if handling can't be avoided it's actually the bats that need protection from us. "The concern is transmission of SARS-CoV-2 from humans to bats, not vice versa, so handling dead bats is fine." However, it's important to avoid any skin contact to prevent rabies exposure and keep pets and children away.
Many bat species have adapted to urban and rural environments, where they coexist safely with people and Kellner says, "it's important that bats and bat habitat are not destroyed because of unfounded fears over coronavirus transmission."
Kellner says, "bats in B.C. are already in trouble from habitat loss and white-nose syndrome - half of our 15 B.C. species are currently, at-risk’."
Kellner says bats play a key role in our ecosystem, eating half their weight in insects every night. "In the U.S., bats are estimated to provide $23 billion USD of natural pest control each year."
Killing bats would not have any effect on the spread of COVID-19, but would negatively affect bat populations, conservation efforts, and our economy, she said.