URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006906955
ID : GPHN2020050500095

Date : 2020-05-05 00:13:00
Title : Marnie Banger and Benita Kolovos
Ariticle : 
Marnie Banger and Benita Kolovos
MELBOURNE, May 5 AAP - A coronavirus outbreak at a Victorian meat processing facility continues to expand after the state recorded more than a dozen new cases overnight.
Treasurer Tim Pallas on Tuesday confirmed 17 new confirmed cases of COVID-19, bringing the state's tally to 1423.
Eleven of the new cases are connected to a cluster of infected workers at the Cedar Meats facility in Brooklyn.
A total of 45 people have contracted coronavirus at the facility.
Both the company and the state's chief health officer have assured the public meat from the factory is safe to eat.
All 350 staff were tested for COVID-19 by May 1 and the site has been shutdown.
Of the remaining new cases, two people were diagnosed after being tested in a drive-through clinic, while three cases remain under investigation.
Eleven people remain in hospital with the virus, including six people in intensive care.
So far, 152,000 people have been tested across Victoria.
Meanwhile,Mr Pallas announced $490 million in additional tax relief for Victorians.
"About $225 million of that is payroll tax relief and about $200 million of that is foregone premiums under WorkCover," he said, noting anyone entitled to WorkCover protection will still be covered.
"The state will effectively pick up those shortfalls to the extent that, of course, the (WorkCover) fund itself can continue to operate in the way where they can make those payments, that will continue to be the case."
Meanwhile, a school teacher who tested positive to coronavirus leading to the shutdown of Meadow Glen primary school in Eppingsays he was rejected for testing three times.
Keith Campbell believes he had the virus back in March but his attempts to get tested were repeatedly denied because he did not meet the box-ticking criteria.
"I wasn't severe enough to obviously warrant a test, basically that was it," he told Nine's Today program on Tuesday.
"I tried three times,twice through the hospital and then the (Department of Health and Human Services)."
Mr Campbell said he doesn't blame health staff who denied him a test because they were just doing their job with the tools available to them.
He believes he caught the deadly virus back in mid-March at a bar he was at along with other members of his family, including his nine-year-old granddaughter, who also tested positive.
By the time he was tested, the coronavirus cells in his nasal passage were dead, but it was enough for authorities to shut down the school where he worked.
He was not in contact with children for two days prior and was only at the school to record video lessons.
The state government named the school on Sunday soon after federal education minister Dan Tehan launched an attack on Premier Daniel Andrews over his refusal to open schools.
Mr Tehan withdrew his comments later that same day.
AAP UI/SN/Maur/BK/KO/klm