URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006905862
ID : GPHN2020050500052

Date : 2020-05-05 18:01:00
Title : Meat workers’ cluster spike
Ariticle : 
OUTBREAKS CORONAVIRUS infections in Victoria spiked yesterday as the number of positive tests connected to a Melbourne meat works doubled.
The outbreak at the facility also triggered a scare at Sunshine Hospital, after a meat worker received emergency surgery there for a severed thumb.
Last night more than 20 staff from the hospital, identified as coming into contact with the man, were under quarantine and awaiting coronavirus test results.
Infections at Cedar Meats made up 19 of 22 new cases in Victoria, along with two overseas travellers and another case still under investigation.
With at least 34 ­infections linked to the meat works so far, the facility has become one of the state’s biggest clusters of COVID-19.
In total, there have been 1406 confirmed cases in Victoria and the death toll last night remained stable at 18.
Authorities chose not to name Cedar Meats as the site of the outbreak, but the business’s general manager confirmed the cases came from its West Melbourne facility.
Records show the company made a $15,000 to the state Labor Party, but Premier Daniel Andrews said that had nothing to do with the decision not to name it.
“Some businesses have been named, some businesses have not,” he said. “That is not a judgment made by any minister. That is a judgment made by the public health team.
“It’s made on one basis and one basis only.
Is naming the business critical in tracing the number of people that might have the virus as a result of an outbreak at the business?” Victoria’s food safety regulator for the meat industry, PrimeSafe, said consumers could have confidence meat bought from the company was safe to eat.
“In accordance with advice from Food Standards Australia New Zealand, there is no evidence that COVID-19 can be transmitted to people through food or packaging,” it said.
Cedar Meats general manager Tony Kairouz also ­assured customers safety procedures had been followed.
“For the past few days our focus has been 100 per cent ­inward, on closing down the processing side of our business, taking care of staff and animal welfare,” Mr Kairouz said.
“We have in no way sought not to be transparent with the Victorian community. “We are deeply saddened that there is speculation that we sought to hide from something that is not of our making — it is an outbreak of a worldwide pandemic at our plant.” Victorian Transport Association chief executive Peter Anderson said truck drivers visiting the facility were ­unaware of the outbreak until its name was published.
“Full transparency is owed to operators when it comes to COVID-19 outbreaks in the supply chain so they can take appropriate health and safety measures to protect themselves and their workers,” he said.kieran.rooney@news.com.au