URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892982
ID : GPHN2020050200158

Date : 2020-05-02 10:15:00
Title : China lied to world about coronavirus and hurt vaccine efforts, leaked dossier claims
Ariticle : 
A bombshell dossier by the Five Eyes security alliance has accused China of hiding the truth about the deadly virus as it spread across the world, causing tens of thousands of death
Bombshell leaked security documents claim that China deliberately suppressed or destroyed evidence about the coronavirus outbreak and hampered efforts to develop a vaccine.
The report -produced by the Five Eyes security alliance -accuses China of silencing doctors who spoke out, blocking news reports about the disease and denying it could spread between humans for weeks, despite knowing this was untrue.
This caused the “endangerment of other countries”, and sets out the case against the Chinese government, according to reports in Australia.
The 15-page dossier was leaked to the Saturday Telegraph, raising grave concerns about research into deadly pathogens at the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
For the latest on the coronavirus pandemic,
It also alleges that China continued to deny reports about the killer bug for weeks, giving it time to spread around the world.
Intelligence services from the US, Canada, the UK, Australia and New Zealand reportedly believe evidence of the virus was destroyed in labs and requests to provide live samples to international scientists working on a vaccine were refused.
And the newspaper reports that the Australian government funded a team of Chinese scientists at a lab where deadly coronaviruses were genetically modified -even though they could be transmitted from bats to humans.
China has consistently denied that Covid-19 originated in a lab -a claim voiced again this week by US President Donald Trump.
Intelligence officials are said to be divided over whether the disease came from a laboratory or a wet market in the city of Wuhan.
Even after the outbreak in Wuhan, the Chinese government locked down the city while telling the rest of the world such measures were not necessary, it is claimed.
TRUMP SAYS HE'S SEEN EVIDENCE THAT CORONAVIRUS CAME FROM WUHAN LAB
The report claimed "millions" of people left the city before it went into lockdown, spreading the killer disease around the world.
"Throughout February, Beijing presses the US, Italy, India, Australia, Southeast Asian neighbors and others not to protect themselves via travel restrictions, even as the PRC imposes severe restrictions at home," the dossier reportedly states.
The dossier claimed there was a “deadly denial of human-to-human transmission”, which has cost tens of thousands of lives, while doctors and scientists who spoke out were "silenced".
It is also alleged that China "bleached" wildlife market stalls and refused to provide live samples that could help find a cure.
Intelligence agencies are investigating whether the virus could have accidentally leaked from a lab in Wuhan -with several studies led by scientist Shi Zhengli said to be the source of concern.
A partnership between Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation CSIRO and the Wuhan Institute of Virology included research into deadly pathogens in live bats, it is claimed.
The report says China had "evidence of human-human transmission from early December", but denied it could be spread this way until January 20.
The dossier reportedly states: "Despite evidence of human-human transmission from early December, PRC authorities deny it until January 20."
And it continued: "The World Health Organisation does the same.
"Yet officials in Taiwan raised concerns as early as December 31, as did experts in Hong Kong on January 4."
Researcher Huang Yan Ling, businessman Fang Bin, lawyer Chen Qiushi and journalist Li Zehua are among those who mysteriously disappeared as the pandemic spread.