URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006878056
ID : GPHN2020043000110

Date : 2020-04-30 04:05:00
Title : Has lockdown worked? Answer lies in sewage
Ariticle : 
When India decides to lift the coronavirus curbs, two important questions will emerge. First, has the lockdown worked. Second, how will people know if the novel virus has returned after the lockdown. Well, answers can be found through testing the waste water.
In 2016, traces of a polio strain were found in the sewers of Mumbai - two years after the World Health Organisation had declared the country polio free. It was a wake-up call that immediately refocused efforts to revaccinate children.
In 2013, wastewater testing detected prevalence of polio in Israel even before any cases were reported from hospitals or clinics.
Worldwide, experts believe similar checks can alert healthcare authorities if SARS-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, has persisted through the lockdown or re-emerged after a lull. If sewage --full of human faeces -- tests positive, we can be sure of a few points: Cases have fallen through the sieve of conventional clinical testing and infection is prevalent in communities despite measures such as social distancing and population curfews.
In densely populated neighbourhoods, sewage testing can also be a faster approach towards early disease detection than door-to-door testing."All you need is about 250ml of sewage because an infected person will be shedding a lot of viruses. We will be able to determine if the pathogen is persistent in a community even if it has not reported new cases. We'll know if lockdown has worked; we'll know if a fresh wave of cases is forming," said Charles Gerba, a professor of epidemiology and bio-statistics at the University of Arizona's department of environmental science.
On March 11, Gerba, who has been a consultant with the anti-polio programme backed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, found traces of the new coronavirus in the sewage of Tucson in Arizona."That was when the city had 40 cases. We now have over 1,000. Detection of these traces can help us alert authorities before a surge," Gerba said.
The new coronavirus doesn't last over a day in sewage, but surveillance officials - through molecular testing methods recommended by the CDC - can detect Sars-CoV-2 genetic markers in sewage samples collected before and after wastewater treatment. It should be noted that sewage is not a route the virus prefers to infect people."The tests are quite specific and can be pretty easily carried out in countries like India. I would, however, urge environmental surveillance workers, working on these tests, to use precautionary measures such as personal protection kits and hand washing anyway," Gerba said.
Another major advantage of wastewater surveillance is early detection. The virus appears in human faeces within two to three days of infection.
That's sooner than onset of symptoms severe enough for hospital care - a process that can take up to two weeks. "Sewage can have evidence of infection before it's reported from hospitals," Gerba said.
There are concerns, however, that waste water tests could use up some of the resources used for clinical testing of humans in hospitals and other facilities.
Mariana Matus, the CEO and co-founder of BioBot, a startup currently analysing waste water from 30 US states, said, "Testing of sewage doesn't necessarily divert resources away from hospitals. Our tests don't need hospital infrastructure."Matus said, "The supply chains don't overlap. We use research-grade bulk reagents to avoid using the medical-grade test kits."Researchers in The Netherlands, the first to find SARS-Cov-2 in sewage, say wastewater surveillance can be a complementary approach with clinical testing to monitor the epidemic. Experts there found traces of the infection in sewage just four days after the country's first case."Samples are collected to detect hereditary material of the Covid-19 virus with the aim of using the sewer as a mirror of the population. An entire city can be screened with a single sample of sewage water," said Frederic Béen, a scientific researcher with the KWR Water Research Institute.