URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006883205
ID : GPHN2020050100092

Date : 2020-05-01 19:15:00
Title : CM urges people to follow home quarantine rule
Ariticle : 
Shimla, May 1 -- Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday urged the people who had returned to Himachal Pradesh recently from other States to strictly follow home quarantine as this would not only be beneficial for them but also for their family and society as well.
In a statement, he said they should also provide complete information about their travel history as well as any Influenza Like Illness (ILI) symptoms to the health workers so that remedial measures could be taken up accordingly.
The Chief Minister said that the State Government had also asked the representatives of PRIs and Urban Local Bodies to keep a close vigil on persons who had returned from other States and persuade them to strictly follow the norms of home quarantine. He said the State Government had given relaxation of one and half hours in curfew during morning hours for morning walk besides extending relaxation in curfew from three to four hours.
Thakur said that Government has also allowed opening of shops in rural areas which facilitated the people. He urged the people to maintain social distancing and always use face cover while stepping out from their homes.
He also thanked the people of the State for their wholehearted cooperation in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, adding that presently there were only eight active Covid-19 patients in the State and expressed hope that by the next few days, the State would be corona free.
HELPLINE SERVICE FOR DELIVERY OF MEDICINE HELPS PATIENTS
Helpline service started by the State Government to deliver prescribed medicines has proved a boon to many in the hill state with Patients, especially with kidney transplant, heart surgeries, anti-cancer medicines and psychiatric patients in remote areas of the State benefiting from this service. These patients are now being provided medicines at their doorsteps by procuring them from Chandigarh, Dehradun and other parts of the region, a state government release said.
The State Government started the helpline with two landline numbers 0177-2626076 and 0177-2626077 and toll free number 1070 on April 4.
Any person requiring medicine can place his request on these numbers and medicines would be made available at chemist shop nearer to his home where he can make payments after getting the medicines.
This service has helped 948 patients with drugs inspectors acting as bridge between the patients and chemists and have ensured delivery of medicines to needy patients during the curfew.
Till date, as many as 1059 requests have been received on this helpline and more than 90 percent requests of the medicines have been delivered and the remaining are under process, a government spokesman said.
HP GOVT IN TALKS WITH OTHER STATES TO BRING BACK STRANDED PEOPLE
Himachal government will coordinate with other states to know the exact number of stranded people from the state before chalking out a plan to bring them home, Principal Secretary (Revenue-Disaster Management) Onkar Sharma said on Thursday.
He said the state government will also launch an app in which people who want to return back can register,
"An action plan will be prepared to bring them back after getting exact information about the number of stranded people from Himachal Pradesh," he said. Over 50,000 people from the state who were stuck in other parts of the country due to the coronavirus lockdown have already returned to their native places in their own vehicles after getting e-passes from respective district magistrates, Sharma said.
"Any stranded HP resident who wants to return in his or her own vehicle may get e-pass from respective DMs, whereas the state government will try to make arrangements of buses wherever possible for those stranded Himachalis who do not possess their own vehicles," he said.
"We are in regular touch with the administration of other states and monitoring day to day relief operations on account of the calls and e-mails being received from the people who are stranded outside," he added.
He said 1,618 such calls were registered on helpline numbers of the State Emergency Operation Centre.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Pioneer.