URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006902053
ID : GPHN2020050400167

Date : 2020-05-04 04:40:00
Title : LAST: Trump says there will be a vaccine by the end of the year
Ariticle : 
Below are the most recent events on the COVID-19 pandemic. The number of globally confirmed cases up to Sunday was more than 3.4 million, with at least 244,000 dead, according to the Johns Hopkins University count.
___
US President Donald Trump said a COVID-19 vaccine will be available by the end of the year.
The representative also noted that the U.S. government is "backing up with all its power" to remdesivir, a drug that has shown promising results against the disease that causes coronavirus.
Trump made his statements during a televised forum on fox news channel.
The representative sat inside the Lincoln Memorial and answered questions from two Fox presenters and people who asked their questions through the channel's social media platforms.
Trump responded to a man from Nebraska who recovered from COVID-19, telling him, "We think we'll have a vaccine by the end of this year."
He also commented that his government is vigorously pushing the remdesivir.
U.S. public health authorities have said that developing a vaccine is likely to take between a year and 18 months. But Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said in late April that it is conceivable, if a vaccine develops soon, that could be widely distributed even in January.
___
The White House's battle-to-coronavirus coordinator called it "extremely troubling" that people did not wear masks or stay estranged when protesting against confinement measures in Michigan and other states.
Dr. Deborah Birx responded to the hundreds of protesters who last week gathered in front of the Michigan legislature demanding that business be reopened.
In the "Fox News Sunday" program, the expert said people "will feel guilty for the rest of their lives" if they get the disease or pass it on to family members.
"We have to protect ourselves at the same time that we can express our discontent," Birx said.
___
Some 1,000 health professionals have been hired to deal with the coronavirus crisis in Italy's overcrowded prisons.
Regional Affairs Minister Francesco Boccia told journalists on Sunday that if more doctors are needed, they will be hired.
Prison work will begin on Monday and last until 31 July. Some 20,000 people ran for office. The initiative was presented at a press conference outside the Rebibbia Prison in Rome, where 62 of the medical professions will be temporarily transferred.
At the beginning of the coronavirus crisis in Italy, prisoners in several prisons mutinied by reporting that they lacked the hygienic conditions needed at the moment.
___
The drug regulator in Sweden said Sunday that the European Union is investigating whether the drug remdesivir could be used to treat coronavirus within the 27-nation block after a similar decision in the United States.
The drug was originally developed to treat Ebola and is produced by California-based Gilead Sciences Inc.. Clinical trials have shown that the drug helps shorten the recovery time of people who are severely ill with COVID-19.
___
From Monday in Italy, public parks and gardens can be reopened so that people can walk, jog or bike. But people will have to stay a metre away, discard picnics and avoid playgrounds.
Restaurants and cafés can offer food fortake the customers. Brief funeral services are already allowed, but no more than 15 mourners can attend using head-coverings.
___
South Korea will further relax its patterns of social estrangement. Health Minister Park Neung-hoo said Sunday that the government will allow public facilities to reopen in phases starting Wednesday.
Parks, outdoor sports and leisure facilities and museums will reopen before social assistance centres, public theatres and concert halls.
South Korea reported 13 additional cases of coronavirus on Sunday, bringing the country's total to 10,793 with 251 deaths.
___
Spaniards enjoy Sunday's second day of outdoor exercise while authorities reported the lowest number of daily deaths in six weeks.
Spain will reduce much of the confinement measures on Monday: restaurants will be able to serve customers who have placed takeaway orders. Masks will be mandatory on public transport.
In total, Spain has reported more than 217,400 cases and more than 25,260 deaths.
___
Russia reported 10,633 new cases of coronavirus infections on Sunday, the first time the country's daily count reaches five figures. More than half of the new cases were in Moscow.
The country has reported more than 134,000 coronavirus infections and 1,420 deaths.
___
In most people, coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms that go away within two to three weeks. However, in some people, especially older adults and those with underlying health disorders, it can cause more serious illnesses, including pneumonia, or death.