URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892464
ID : GPHN2020050200154

Date : 2020-05-02 08:01:00
Title : SW Utah counts 100th COVID-19 case as state eases into reopening plan
Ariticle : 
The Southwest Utah health district counted its 100th case of COVID-19 on Friday, with three new cases reported compared to the previous day.
The district, which includes Washington, Iron, Kane, Garfield and Beaver counties, has seen 13 people hospitalized and two deaths attributed to the disease. Of those who have been confirmed as having the disease, 69 have recovered, according to the Southwest Utah Public Health Department.
Through Friday there had been 6,101 tests performed in the county, according to department officials. The majority of cases, 71, had been counted in Washington County, including all three of the new cases identified on Friday.
Statewide, there were 4,828 total cases as of Friday, with 156 new cases reported.
There were no new deaths reported across the state, although the virus has been deemed the cause of death in 46 cases total. There have been 403 people hospitalized because of the virus.
Health officials have reported 112,558 tests, with about 4% so far testing positive.
Friday plans to reopen
The numbers come in as Utah moves from "red" to "orange" alert per a reopening plan outlined by Gov. Gary Herbert's office.
On Tuesday, Herbert announced that dine-in restaurants, gyms, barber shops and nail salons would all be allowed to reopen starting Friday, May 1, with people allowed to gather in groups of up to 20.
Strict social distancing recommendations remain in place, with Utahns encouraged to wear masks when unable to stick to social distancing guidelines.
Herbert said Thursday he would still urge caution from residents, indicating he would switch back to "red" status if public health officials recommend it.
Herbert and the state health department have developed a program called "A facemask for every Utahn," with 2 million masks made available to Utah households upon requests.
Restaurants have been closed to dine-in customers since March 17. Schools and church services will remain closed.
State epidemiologist Angela Dunn said during a Friday briefing that in Southern Utah, where the spread has been less prevalent, it's important for people to stay home if they have symptoms or been in close contact with someone who has symptoms.
"Even though we are opening pieces of our economy and society, those principles still hold," she said. "Especially for our more vulnerable populations, older adults (and) those with underlying medical conditions, it's important for them to maintain social distance even if they aren't ill."