URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006892517
ID : GPHN2020050200148

Date : 2020-05-01 08:38:00
Title : CH has 54 virus cases, but officials won't ID if clustered
Ariticle : 
COLONIAL HEIGHTS — The director of the Chesterfield Health District is not ready to sound any alarm about the sharp rise in confirmed coronavirus cases in the city in April, saying that increase could be tied to the growth in test access here.
Nor would Dr. Alexander Samuel confirm how many of the 54 confirmed cases and five confirmed deaths are linked to one known central location or if they are spread across the city.
"There is increased access to testing there," Samuel said in a press briefing Thursday afternoon with reporters. "Perhaps that is a reason why we are seeing increase in numbers in a relatively small locale. As you test more, you'll certainly see more numbers."
Samuel was referring to the Rite Aid pharmacy on the Boulevard, which last week began offering curbside self-swab testing. Lines of cars have been a common sight at the store as drivers are able to pull up, swab their noses and leave.
Colonial Heights has the highest number of confirmed cases and deaths in the immediate Tri-City area as of Thursday. Its 54 cases are 21 more than the next highest in Prince George and 23 higher than in neighboring Petersburg. Petersburg also has reported two deaths related to the virus.
Petersburg and Prince George are in the Crater Health District, which covers most of the Tri-City area.
Samuel would not say if those 54 cases and five deaths were spread throughout the city or clustered in any one location. More than half of the cluster outbreaks across Virginia have occurred in nursing homes and assisted-living facilities that serve a senior population considered high-risk.
At least two deaths and five COVID-19 cases have been confirmed at the Colonial Heights Rehabilitation & Nursing Center on East Ellerslie Avenue. However, the company that operates the center — Virginia Innovative Healthcare Management in Richmond — has not responded to repeated requests by The Progress-Index to provide updated information about the spread, and Samuel said he was "prohibited" from providing any specific data on nursing homes in the city.
However, as the pandemic continues, "it is possible we will be seeing additional numbers in any congregant setting," Samuel added.
Bill Atkinson can be reached at batkinson@progress-index.com. On Twitter: @BAtkinsonpi