URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006876645
ID : GPHN2020043000064

Date : 2020-04-29 01:31:00
Title : Sudbury doctor encourages hospital, nursing homes to work together - The Sudbury Star
Ariticle : 
More from Jim Moodie
Published on: April 28, 2020 | Last Updated: April 28, 2020 9:26 PM EDT
A convoy drove past Health Sciences North in Sudbury, Ontario on Saturday, April 18, 2020, as a thank-you to front-line health-care workers. Ben Leeson/The Sudbury Star/Postmedia Network
Share Adjust Comment Print
A former head of medical staff at Health Sciences North is heartened by news the hospital could pitch in to assist local nursing homes in containing coronavirus outbreaks.
“The government has sent direction to hospitals, and for sure sent it to this hospital in Sudbury, that they should help long-term-care homes if they need help, which is a terrific thing,” said Dr. Peter Zalan, who retired as an intensive care physician a couple of years ago but remains in the loop on inter-departmental memos.
Ontario Health has issued a recommendation that hospitals do not begin ramping up scheduled care at this time, he said, in order to focus on support for long-term-care and retirement homes.
HSN has set aside space and resources for a potential surge of COVID-19 patients by cancelling elective surgeries, he noted, but luckily has not experienced the kind of influx that many feared.
Sudbury’s nursing homes, meanwhile, were mostly spared the epidemic until quite recently, with outbreaks now declared at St. Joseph’s Villa, Pioneer Manor and Extendicare York. 
Last week. St. Joseph’s revealed both a staff member and resident had been diagnosed with coronavirus, while three residents and four staff at Pioneer Manor were confirmed yesterday to carry the virus. On Tuesday, it was announced that a staff member at Extendicare York had also contracted COVID-19.
“We’re still lucky compared to southern Ontario and Quebec, and I’m really glad for the new rules where they are testing everyone at long-term care homes,” said Zalan. “But some of these homes, especially the older ones, don’t have as much ability to isolate the patients who do have it, and that’s where the hospital could play a role.”
Dr. Peter Zalan SunMedia
If HSN were to take in some residents, it would be a complete reversal of the trend in recent years, when the hospital has been eager to move out older patients who don’t require acute care, although Zalan said it is more likely they would be accommodated off-site in a hotel or other facility.
He said HSN is already renting space at a downtown hotel for so-called ALC (alternative level of care) patients and could presumably take in seniors from nursing homes that lack proper quarantine rooms.
“I know the hospital has already offered lessons in how to put on the personal protective equipment, and if they can now loan out a nurse or PSW to the nursing homes or help in isolating patients, I think that’s quite encouraging,” he said.
If HSN can work with long-term care homes “and consider them part of the hospital,” this would represent “a huge step forward,” according to the physician.
“We’ve never had that before,” he said. “We just had a bunch of silos. And the fact that this is happening before we’ve had anyone die in Sudbury at a long-term care home, that’s terrific.”
Unlike many seniors facilities in southern Ontario that got hit hard and early by the coronavirus, Sudbury was fortunate to have time to prepare and implement measures to protect its residents and staff, said Zalan.
“Starting here late gave us time for these good things to happen,” he said. 
A key step has been “eliminating the personal support workers from moving from one place to another place,” he said, but he’s also happy to hear the city is providing staff to pitch in at Pioneer Manor and more widespread testing is now being carried out.
Pioneer Manor said Monday that all 423 of its residents, as well as all 432 staff, had been swabbed for the virus, and Zalan presumes other nursing homes in Sudbury have done the same kind of blanket testing.
Testing will have to be ongoing, however, as someone who is negative one day might not be the next, the physician noted, and false negatives are common when someone is first infected but still asymptomatic.
Zalan said it is also imperative the province address the pre-existing issues in long-term care — such as underpaid and insufficient staff, spotty inspections and spaces that often don’t lend themselves to infection control — that have only become more glaring as COVID-19 makes its deadly way through many homes.
“What I’m really hoping is that some good comes out of this and they’ll start treating people in long-term care homes properly,” he said. “Which means also treating the personal support workers properly.”
Zalan said the system won’t be fixed overnight but at least the impetus should be there now to start making changes.
“This is going to be a long-term project,” he said. “I’m hoping the hospital and the nursing homes continue to work together, co-operatively, to get through this very difficult period. Solving how long-term care is currently configured is going to take a long time, even when this is over.”
The physician said he has been arguing for years that PSWs deserve better compensation and should not be required to visit multiple sites, potentially transporting an illness from one to another as they go.
“We knew we were very short of staff even before COVID turned up,” he said. “Long-term care was a total mess already, and right now we’re having a pandemic on top of a mess.”
sud.editorial@sunmedia.ca