URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868943
ID : GPHN2020042900109

Date : 2020-04-28 00:28:00
Title : The insidious coronavirus can invade heart, lungs — even brain
Ariticle : 
Patricia Dowd had flu-like symptoms a few days before she suddenly died of a massive heart attack — a death now attributed to COVID-19 that adds to increasing evidence that the coronavirus can damage almost all of the body's major organs.
An autopsy on the Santa Clara County woman — who died Feb. 6 and would become the first reported COVID-19 death in the United States — found that the coronavirus had invaded her heart, lungs and intestines.
Reports from around the world are showing that a virus primarily known to cause respiratory illness also can affect almost all of the body's primary organs, including the heart, kidneys and brain.
Doctors in China reported heart damage in as many as one in five hospitalized patients. Some patients have suffered strokes or seizures. Many patients suffer kidney damage serious enough to require dialysis. Blood clots also are a recurring issue — doctors had to amputate the leg of a Los Angeles patient due to clotting that formed while he was seriously ill.
It's not clear what role the virus plays in these cases. The coronavirus may be causing damage on its own, or the body's immune response may be more to blame. Some of the organ failure that's been reported is similar to what's seen in patients who are very ill with influenza or any number of serious infections.
"But this epidemic is definitely different (from) other respiratory epidemics that we've seen," said Dr. Nisha Parikh, a cardiologist with UCSF who is helping put together guidelines for treating COVID-19 patients with heart damage. "There's some interesting biology that lends itself to further investigation. But we're really early in our understanding of the pathophysiology of the virus."
Reports from around the world have linked the coronavirus to organ damage beyond the lungs, but much of the evidence is anecdotal, based on a handful of case studies. Doctors and scientists stress that large studies looking at many thousands of cases are still needed to understand what happens when the virus invades the body and why it can cause widespread damage.
The virus itself could be to blame, but that's difficult to prove without autopsies or invasive testing, both of which are not often done in COVID-19 victims because such procedures are considered an unnecessary risk to health care providers or medical examiners. The autopsy on the Santa Clara County victim was done before officials were aware she'd been infected with the coronavirus.
If the virus is not directly responsible for organ damage, one popular alternative explanation is an aggressive immune response known as a "cytokine storm." Cytokines are molecules that regulate immunity, and some viral infections are known to cause an overreaction by those molecules that can lead to widespread and harmful inflammation. In that case, the immune response may be more damaging than the virus itself.
But it's also possible that an overall weakening in the body due to severe illness damages the heart, kidneys and other organs, doctors said. It's not unusual for people in intensive care who require mechanical ventilation to suffer multiple-organ failure.
"One of the key things that's different from the flu is that this seems to be an inflammatory process that's affecting multiple organs," said Dr. Junaid Khan, director of cardiovascular services and a cardiothoracic surgeon at Alta Bates Summit Medical Center. "People from COVID-19 can get super sick, and when you're super sick other organs can be affected. Is it from the COVID or from being super sick? Time will tell, but that's one of the things we're most concerned about."
The coronavirus enters the body primarily through the nose or mouth, and it seems in most cases — possibly up to 90% — the immune system successfully fends it off there, maybe before the person has any symptoms. In more serious cases, the virus heads down the trachea and into the lungs, where it begins to reproduce widely.
Early studies have shown that the virus infiltrates cells through a protein on the cellular surface known as ACE2, which many people are familiar with for its role in controlling blood pressure. The coronavirus is drawn to the ACE2 protein, which it uses as a sort of key to get inside cells. Once inside, the virus takes over cells' inner machinery and makes copies of itself.
ACE2 proteins are not found on the surface of all cells. What doctors have noticed is that organs and other parts of the body, including blood vessels, with ACE2 cells are more vulnerable to damage in COVID-19 patients. That connection could help drive new therapies to treat the virus.
In the meantime, understanding what parts of the body can be affected by the virus is critical for caring for seriously ill patients, doctors said.
"One of the important things we're learning with all of this is that you have to have a comprehensive approach to protecting all of the organs," said Dr. Stephen Parodi, an executive vice president and infectious disease expert at Kaiser Permanente.
A study out of China found that 20% of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 had some heart damage. Some doctors in the U.S. have reported patients showing up in emergency rooms with symptoms similar to a heart attack, only to discover that they had the coronavirus. In many cases, the patients didn't have a heart attack at all, though they had heart muscle damage.
Other studies have shown increased blood clotting in COVID-19 patients. Clots typically form in blood vessels, and they can break off and travel in the bloodstream to other organs. If the clots stop blood flow and cut off oxygen to vital organs, they can quickly cause serious injury or death.
Kidney damage is also common among seriously ill COVID-19 patients. Some hospitals in the U.S. reported so many patients needing dialysis to protect kidneys that they were running low on equipment. But understanding what's causing the damage is particularly tricky with kidneys, which tend to be vulnerable to all sorts of infection and immune reactions, doctors note.
Just being on a ventilator is linked to an increased risk of kidney damage. Plus, many of the drugs being used experimentally to treat the coronavirus are known to harm the kidneys.
"Kidneys are the first organs to see dysfunction when people are really sick," said Khan with Sutter.
The brain is another complicated — and surprising — organ that may be affected by the virus. The Washington Post last week reported on an early study of five COVID-19 patients, ages 33 to 49, who suffered strokes in New York City. Doctors in the Bay Area said they have treated COVID-19 patients who had strokes, too.
The strokes may be tied to the clotting linked to the coronavirus. But there have been other reports of seizures, confusion and delirium that lead some experts to wonder if the virus directly affects the brain.
"It's very clear that patients with COVID-19 have neurological manifestations," said Dr. S. Andrew Josephson, chair of the neurology department at UCSF. "Neurological symptoms are a red flag that should require you to seek medical attention."
Because Bay Area hospitals aren't overwhelmed with victims, doctors and nurses can provide more precise care based on what they've learned from cases around the world, Josephson and other experts said.
"That's clearly different in places that have been completely overwhelmed. It's just damage control there," said Dr. Jeffrey Gotts, a UCSF pulmonologist. "We can be a little more academic about it and try to be thoughtful and open-minded. If I were working 120 hours a week and having 10 patients a day die on me, I can't imagine I'd be interested in cogitating on this."
Erin Allday is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: eallday@sfchronicle.com