URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868915
ID : GPHN2020042900095

Date : 2020-04-28 23:41:00
Title : An arthritis drug, tested to treat Covid-19, had disappointing results but left hope for the most serious patients
Ariticle : 
Kevzara, an arthritis drug studied in recent weeks as a possible treatment for the new coronavirus, had disappointing results in clinical trials, its manufacturers admitted. However, the test left a positive fact by helping to improve the condition of critically ill patients.
The drug from the US company Regeneron and the French company Sanofi does not directly attack the new coronavirus, but inhibits an abnormal immune response called a "cytokine storm", which causes inflammation in the lungs of the sickest patients, forced to fight the disease with an artificial respirator.
A first small study in China yielded promising results; however, this was not the case by increasing the number of subjects: Kevzara showed no advantage over a placebo in a larger US study with 276 patients affected by a "severe" form of disease, i.e. people who needed oxygen but not a respirator.
However, that second study did leave a ray of hope for those in a "critical" phase, patients who needed an artificial respirator or high-flow oxygenation.
In that group, 44 people were given a placebo, 94 received a low dose of the drug and 88 received a high dose. After the trial, 50% of placebo patients died, compared to 46% taking the lowest dose and 32% of those given the highest dose.
Medical personnel operate a mechanical respirator on a patient with coronavirus (AP) (John Minchillo/)The trial will now continue within that group of critically ill people. "We waited for the results of the current Phase 3 trial to learn a little more about covid-19 and better understand whether some patients can benefit from Kevzara treatment," said George Yancopoulos, Regeneron's leader and co-founder.
Another similar, more promising study
The drug for arthritis tocilizumab would be more promising to prevent extreme inflammation in patients severely ill with COVID-19, according to a French clinical study.
The study, conducted by the founding of the University Hospital of Paris (AP-HP), examined 129 people hospitalized with moderate or severe viral pneumonia. Half received two injections of tocilizumab as well as a standard antibiotic treatment, while the control group received only one standard treatment. The results have not been published, but research officials indicated that participants showed a clear "clinical benefit".
Tocilizumab, one of the drugs evaluated by researchers (Reuters) (PASCAL ROSSIGNOL/)Tocilizumab currently costs around 800 euros ($870) per injection.
Projects for a vaccine
There are a hundred COVID-19 vaccine projects, including a dozen in clinical trials, according to data released by the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
This prestigious British medical school lists 119 different vaccine projects against the disease caused by coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, of which 110 are in a developmental phase"preclinical".
Eight projects have reached the stage of phase I clinical trials in humans. Among them, a Chinese project, led mainly by the publicly traded canSino company in Hong Kong, is at an even more advanced stage, with Phase I and Phase II clinical trials.
The main objective of Phase I trials is to test the safety and, to a lesser extent, the efficacy of a medical product. Phase II and post-Phase III trials, carried out on a larger scale, are intended to assess efficacy, before the health authorities eventually authorise their placing on the market.
Three other Chinese projects are in phase I trial: one led by pharmaceutical giant Sinovac and two led by the Shenzhen Medical Institute, according to information from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
(With AFP information)
MORE ON THIS TOPIC:
The UK warned doctors that coronavirus COVID-19 caused toxic shock syndrome and the death of some children
New York tripled cases of disinfectant poisoning following Trump's statements