URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006897745
ID : GPHN2020050400043

Date : 2020-05-03 09:00:00
Title : Six more cases linked to coronavirus cluster at meatworks
Ariticle : 
The Victorian government refuses to identify a meat processing plant at the centre of a coronavirus outbreak, despite six more workers testing positive to COVID-19.
Fifteen people linked to the meatworks have contracted coronavirus and 300 staff are being tested, but Health Minister Jenny Mikakos insists there is no threat to public health.
Victoria recorded its first double-digit increase in coronavirus cases on Sunday in more than a month as a result of the cluster at the facility.
Ms Mikakos said the business would not be named because the Department of Health determined there was no reason to identify the location of the outbreak.
"The advice that I have received is that there isn't [a risk to the community] because it's been dealt with in a very thorough way," Ms Mikakos said on Sunday.
"The facilities have been shut down, it's been thoroughly cleaned, more than 300 staff are being tested, and that is what's identifying the cases that we've heard about both yesterday today."
The Victorian government at the weekend revealed health authorities were investigating the cluster of cases after eight people on Saturday were confirmed to have tested positive to COVID-19, and a further six people were confirmed on Sunday to have coronavirus.
Authorities later in the afternoon confirmed one coronavirus case from Friday was linked to the meatworks.
In a statement, PrimeSafe said the meat processed at the facility was safe to eat.
"In accordance with advice from Food Standards Australia New Zealand there is no evidence that COVID-19 can be transmitted to people through food or packaging," the statutory authority said.
"Based on this information, consumers can have confidence that meat processed at the facility is safe to eat."
Ms Mikakos said the government was not withholding the name of the business to protect its reputation, saying she "would not hesitate" to identify a location if there was a risk to public health.
"There are obviously considerations that need to be given around privacy, and all these considerations around proportionality are actually requirements in the legislation ... in terms of any public health response," Ms Mikakos said.
"But this is not a decision that's being made about anyone's reputation, this is an assessment that's been made as to whether there is a significant risk to public health."
Opposition Leader Michael O'Brien said the government was applying double standards in not naming the facility, and the public had a right to know if they had potentially been exposed to a coronavirus outbreak.
"It makes no sense why the government is quite happy to name aged-care facilities, quite happy to name hospitals where there have been corona outbreaks, but it's not prepared to name a meat processing plant," Mr O'Brien said.
"Everyone who has dealings with that plant - couriers, drivers - everyone has a right to know if they have potentially been exposed to this cluster.