URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006903580
ID : GPHN2020050400216

Date : 2020-05-04 10:26:00
Title : Virus update
Ariticle : 
Governments have reported the virus has infected 3.5 million people and killed more than 247,000 worldwide, including more than 67,000 dead in the United States, according to a count by Johns Hopkins University.
U.S. officials believe China covered up the extent of the outbreak — and how contagious the disease is — to stock up on medical supplies needed to respond to it, intelligence documents show. Chinese leaders “intentionally concealed the severity” of the pandemic from the world in early January, according to a four-page Department of Homeland Security intelligence report dated May 1 and obtained by The Associated Press.
Speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” White House coronavirus coordinator Deborah Birx expressed concern about protests by armed and mostly maskless crowds demanding an end to stay-at-home orders and a full reboot of the economy. “It’s devastatingly worrisome to me personally, because if they go home and infect their grandmother or their grandfather ... they will feel guilty for the rest of our lives,” she said. “So we need to protect each other at the same time we’re voicing our discontent.”
Sen. Tammy Duckworth deplored the use of an infamous Nazi slogan at a Chicago protest against Gov. J.B. A photo of the protest showed one demonstrator holding a handmade sign reading “Arbeit Macht Frei, JB.” “That Nazi slogan is not acceptable,” said Duckworth, a Hoffman Estates Democrat. The phrase means “work makes one free” and was above the main entrance to the Auschwitz concentration camp. Pritzker is Jewish.
China reported only two new cases and saw a surge in visitors to newly reopened tourist spots after domestic travel restrictions were loosened ahead of a five-day holiday that runs through Tuesday. Nearly 1.7 million people visited Beijing parks on the first two days of the holiday, and Shanghai’s main tourist spots welcomed more than 1 million visitors, according to Chinese media. Many spots limited daily visitors to 30% of capacity.
In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent three nights in intensive care while being treated for COVID-19, told The Sun newspaper that he knew his doctors were preparing for the worst. “It was a tough old moment, I won’t deny it,” he said. “They had a strategy to deal with a ‘death of Stalin’-type scenario” if he succumbed to the virus.
CBS News “60 Minutes” correspondent Lesley Stahl said Sunday that she’s finally feeling well after a battle with COVID-19 that left her hospitalized for a week.