URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006884686
ID : GPHN2020050100190

Date : 2020-04-30 04:02:00
Title : Normal deliveries conducted in Red Zone Block Trehgam of Kupwara
Ariticle : 
KUPWARA, April 30 -- In last 24 hours two normal deliveries were conducted at Primary Health Centre (PHC), Block head quarter of Medical Block Trehgam which has been currently declared as Red Zone by District Administration Kupwara.
According to sources that this was made possible by active support from recently posted doctor, Dr Tanveer Fatima who conducted the deliveries after taking due precautions as recommended by WHO. Transportation and other logistics were managed under JSSK BMO Trehgam, Dr Nisar Ahmad Wani who is personally monitoring the emergency deliveries being conducted in Block Trehgam and he thanked the concerned Doctor and other paramedical staff for their cooperation and dedication amid COVID-19 Crisis.
Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner Kupwara Ansul Garg said that, in order to augment healthcare facility for people of Kupwara town and adjacent areas, OPD services shall be available from 10am to 4pm at Health and Wellness Center, Battergam from 1st May on wards 3 senior doctors along with para medical staff have been deputed for the purpose by Chief Medical Officer.
He said the sub district Hospital Kupwara, situated in the town, and has recently been designated as exclusive COVID Hospital with restricted public movement.
The patients from Kupwara town and peripheral areas can have their treatment in the Health and Wellness Center, Batergam, which is only 5 kilo meter from the town.
The District Magistrate also said that, no new positive cases today for Kupwara and total active cases remain to be 30 for the district.
Sampling and testing of suspects with SARI/ILI symptoms, travelers returning from other States without quarantine and pregnant ladies in Red Zone areas shall continue, said DM Kupwara.
Earlier, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nazir Ahmad Lone visited Batergam to take stock of the facilities in the Health and Wellness Centre.
During the inspection, he interacted with the doctors and Para medical staff and stressed upon them to work with added dedication to provide better Medicare facilities to the patients of the area.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Early Times.