URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006874124
ID : GPHN2020043000016

Date : 2020-04-29 14:35:00
Title : Tragedy in Jalisco: 16 people died from drinking adulterated alcohol and 16 others are intoxicated
Ariticle : 
At least 16 people died from consuming 96-degree ethyl alcohol and 16 more reported symptoms of poisoning in the western Mexican state of Jalisco, authorities reported tuesday.
Death and poisoning cases were recorded between 25 and 28 April in several communities in the municipalities of Mazamitla, Tamazuila, unrelated or have occurred at the same event, the Government of Jalisco indicated in a statement.
He stated that so far, the alcohol consumption of 96, which was allegedly adulterated with methanol, has left 16 people dead and affected 16 others, of which 13 were taken to hospitals in the metropolitan area of Guadalajara, capital of Jalisco.
Apparently alcohol was brought to these communities from the state of Michoacán where there have also been cases of poisoning and the health problem began to be recorded on Saturday, April 25.
They confirmed that two patients have been discharged and two others are in a serious health condition. (Photo: EFE/ Joebeth Terriquez) (Joebeth Terriquez/)Symptoms of the intoxicated were blurred vision, vision loss, severe abdominal pain, shortness of breath, and seizures.
The Emergency Medical Care System (SAMU) of Jalisco was responsible for the transfer by helicopter of a total of 15 men and a woman with symptoms of poisoning to hospitals in the metropolitan area of Guadalajara, the authorities indicated.
They confirmed that two patients have been discharged and two others are in a serious health condition.
The Attorney General's Office of the state of Jalisco announced the opening of an investigation folder to determine the causes in which the deaths and poisonings occurred in the municipalities of Mazamitla and Tamazula.
Following the incident, the Jalisco Health Ministry launched an alert to health authorities in the Jalisco and Michoacán region (Photo: Twitter @EnriqueAlfaroR)Following the incident, the Jalisco Health Ministry issued an alert to health authorities in the Jalisco and Michoacán region for the possible presence of more cases of 96-degree alcohol consumption.
Health inspectors deployed through the area to investigate the presence of more such cases, and ordered the suspension of the sale of alcohol in various communities of the designated municipalities and the distributor was asked to suspend its activities.
Alcohol bottles were also ordered to be removed from the shelves of local shops and samples were collected and sent to the laboratory for analysis, the authorities said.
Coronavirus in Mexico: 1,569 dead and 16,752 confirmed cases
The entity most affected by the virusSARS-CoV-2 continues to be Mexico City with 4,474 positive cases and 348 deaths (Photo: Edgard Garrido/Reuters) (EDGARD GARRIDO/)The passage of coronavirus in Mexico continues its progress. According to the report of the Ministry of Health (SSa), 16,752 cumulative confirmed cases and 1,569 deaths from the disease have been reported in Mexico.
From Palacio Nacional, the director of Epidemiology, José Luis Alomía, explained that of the total cases, only 5,329 started with symptoms in the last 14 days. This represents one-third of the total accumulated cases.
In terms of the number of suspected cases accumulated, the figure is 11,220 and tests that have yielded negative results totally 49,033. The total number of people studied with suspected coronavirus in the country, as reported by the epidemiologist, is 77,005.
According to the report of the Ministry of Health (SSa), as of This Tuesday, 16,752 cumulative confirmed cases and 1,569 coronavirus deaths have been reported in Mexico (Photo: SSa)By states of the Republic, the data show that Mexico City continues to record the highest number of contagions and deaths, with 4,474 and 348 respectively. This entity is followed by the State of Mexico (2,722), Tabasco (890), Sinaloa (803), Quintana Roo (698) and Puebla (583).
Another topic that has been discussed in the health crisis is about the fan beds available to care for people who may present complications from the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
On this, Dr. Alomía indicated that until this Tuesday, Mexico City has 67% availability, faced with the occupancy of 33% of the total. After this demarcation, the State of Mexico is positioned as the second entity with less space to care for patients, with 77% of beds available for patients with coronavirus and 23% occupancy.
Efe.
MORE ABOUT OTHER TOPICS:
"Lopez-Gatell figures don't add up": José Narro's criticism of official coVID-19 data
In the bowels of López Obrador's cabinet: misinformation and struggle in the middle of the coronavirus crisis
32 CDMX workers died from coronavirus and 322 more were confirmed with the disease