URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868927
ID : GPHN2020042900112

Date : 2020-04-28 00:01:00
Title : SARS VACCINE RESEARCH COULD HAVE BETTER PREPARED WORLD FOR COVID-19 - REPORT
Ariticle : 
If research into vaccines for previous coronavirus outbreaks had not dwindled when the epidemics died down the world might have been better prepared to tackle Covid-19, a new report has said.
The report, published by the British Society for Immunology on Wednesday, said that the coronavirus responsible for Covid-19 was not a "complete surprise" to science.
It said that during the the Sars outbreak in 2002 to 2004 - caused by a coronavirus similar to Covid-19 - several vaccine candidates had been identified but the research petered out when the epidemic died down.
The report said that "if research had continued, we might have been better prepared to tackle the related Covid-19 pandemic".
It said that long-term strategic investment in vaccine research was crucial to securing global health against current and emerging diseases.
It added: "The response from the research community to Covid-19 has been impressive, but it has also highlighted that the world needs to be better prepared for the next pandemic, whatever it may be.
"Typically, when infectious diseases fade from the headlines, the funding for research dries up too.
"If intensive research into coronavirus infections like Sars and Mers had continued in the wake of past outbreaks, we might have been better equipped for tackling Covid-19 today."
Professor Robin Shattock, of Imperial College London's Department of Infectious Diseases, is leading a team attempting to develop a coronavirus vaccine.
He said: "Covid-19 has been a wake up call for how unprepared we are for the speed of a pandemic.
"It's not so much a technology gap as an investment gap.
"As we recognise the deficiencies of our response to date, we need to ensure there is long-term investment to build and sustain the research, infrastructure and technologies that can provide global and equitable vaccine response capability.
"Covid-19 is not the last pandemic, but work needs to be done to ensure it's the last pandemic for which we were unprepared."
The new report said that even after a safe and effective vaccine is found, manufacturing it at scale would be a "very serious challenge".
It added: "Next come the challenges of scaling-up manufacturing and larger clinical trials involving hundreds or thousands of people before widespread roll-out.
"This will be no small feat: vaccines are commercially risky investments for pharmaceutical companies and production facilities are generally designed to produce one specific vaccine.
"The scaling up of infrastructure to manufacture any new vaccine will be a very serious challenge."
The report said that because large clinical trials for a vaccine can cost millions of pounds and there is a chance it will not be effective or cause unacceptable side effects it was "commercially risky".
This left many promising vaccine candidates stuck in a "death valley" between early stage testing and large scale trials, it added.
The report said the global health community could pull policy levers to shift financial incentives to encourage investment and innovation in vaccine development.
Professor Arne Akbar, president of the British Society for Immunology, said that the UK had been at the forefront of vaccine research for the past 200 years.
He added: "However, we cannot be complacent.
"With our world becoming ever more interconnected, we must continue to innovate and support our world-leading institutions and researchers in their efforts to develop vaccines against a wider range of diseases.
"We are sure to face more outbreaks of new infectious diseases in the future.
"To put us in the best position to respond quickly, we need to continue to invest now and fund a wide variety of vaccine research so that should the worst happen, the UK and the world is ready to respond."