URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907164
ID : GPHN2020050500109

Date : 2020-05-04 15:06:00
Title : North Bay records first COVID-19 outbreak in city's long-term care homes - CTV News
Ariticle : 
North Bay records first COVID-19 outbreak in city's long-term care homes
Chelsea Papineau CTV Northern Ontario Digital Content Specialist
Published Monday, May 4, 2020 11:06AM EDT Last Updated Monday, May 4, 2020 2:43PM EDT
SHARE
SUDBURY --   A coronavirus outbreak has been declared at a long-term care home in North Bay, the first such report in the city's LTC homes.
On Monday, Cassellholme Home for the Aged announced that a resident is confirmed to have the virus, but the resident hasn't shown any symptoms of being ill.
This is the first new case in the North Bay and Parry Sound Districts since April 20.
Health officials say the Cassellholme resident affected is a man between the ages of 60-79.
"Our staff are working with Cassellholme to provide public health direction as we wait for the remainder of the 205 residents and 330 staff test results to come back,” said Dr. Jim Chirico, medical officer of health for the North Bay and Parry Sound Districts. "We know that older individuals are vulnerable, and it is important that we do our best to keep this population safe."
The health unit has tested symptomatic residents of long-term care homes in the district, prior to the release of the provincial plan, and all results came back negative.
As of last Friday, the North Bay Parry Sound Health Unit reported a total of 17 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the pandemic began, 16 of which have been resolved.
Less than two weeks ago, Ontario began "proactive surveillance testing" of all residents and staff at long-term care homes across the province.
Since then, several outbreaks have been declared at facilities around northeastern Ontario.
While the word "outbreak" sounds concerning, the Ontario Ministry of Health requires the designation after just one confirmed case at a facility.
Health officials in North Bay have not released details around the new case. The facility says the resident and their roommate have been transferred to an isolation wing within the care home.
"There is no higher priority for us than the safety of our staff, residents and their families," Jamie Lowery, chief executive officer for Cassellholme Home For the Aged, is quoted as saying in a statement. "Thank you for standing with us during this challenging time."
Currently, there is no specific treatment for COVID-19. It is important to remember that most people with COVID-19 have no symptoms or mild symptoms. People who are mildly ill should isolate and care for themselves at home. Most will recover in one to two weeks by simply treating the symptoms.
RELATED IMAGES
Cassellholme Home for the Aged in North Bay. May 4/20 (Lori-Anne Little/CTV Northern Ontario)
Decorated balcony at Cassellholme Home for the Aged in North Bay. May 4/20 (Lori-Anne Little/CTV Northern Ontario)
Air Date: May 3, 2020
Northern Ontario Top Stories
Air Date: April 26, 2020
Don't Miss
Air Date: May 2, 2020
Most-Read