URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006898500
ID : GPHN2020050300141

Date : 2020-05-03 11:40:00
Title : Confirmed cases of coronavirus in Spain and around the world
Ariticle : 
Note to readers: THE COUNTRY offers open-plan essential information about coronavirus during the crisis. If you want to support our journalism, subscribe here
Coronavirus Europe panelDatos updated to May 3 (11.00 Spanish mainland time)* The data from Spain only includes those confirmed by PCR.
Infected data are cumulative figures and include people cured
Spain?World?Europe?America? The expansion of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which sprung up in the Chinese city of Wuhan at the end of 2019, continues to slow down. Still, more than 3.4 million people from more than 185 countries around the world have already been diagnosed with covid-19s. Of these, more than a million have already healed and 244,000 have lost their lives. Gradually, the countries most affected begin the de-escalation of confinement measures with slight openings and with an eye always on the number of new confirmed cases to continue downwards.
Situation in SpainSpain is the second country in the world with the most detected cases, behind the United States. On 31 January the first positive was confirmed on Spanish soil, but it was from March that the diagnoses began to increase exponentially. The graph below shows the total number of positive cases detected through PCR tests and antibody tests and the latest positive test data from asymptomatic patients reported by the Ministry of Health.
CoronavirusSpainMapTotal positivesTotal newties0S0Curados0Allogarithmic scaleThe number of confirmed daily cases is stabilized, so the Government presented a phased plan on 29 April for the de-escalation of confinement. Previously, non-essential services that stopped by the hibernation decree were able to return to work and from 26 April children under the age of 14 could make limited departures. Another positive sign is that the growth variation of these cases day by day is decreasing. In a month and a half it has gone from daily growth of more than 42% to 1%.
All autonomous communities, in addition to Ceuta and Melilla, record cases of infected persons. Madrid remains the great center of the pandemic in Spain, with more than 66,800 positives and more than 8,300 deaths, followed by Catalonia that almost reaches 51,000 confirmed and accumulates 5,100 deaths. Although the situation is not the same throughout Spain, as the disease runs at a different rate in each location, incomes in the ER services have declined.
It's important to understand that we're talking about confirmed cases. By using this metric, we are measuring two phenomena at the same time: the actual increase in infected people and the ability to detect them by the authorities. As of February 25, for example, cases in Spain soared because people with pneumonia of unknown origin began to be tested for 19. That is why to keep pace with the epidemic, we must also look at the death curves, since the number of confirmed ones is sensitive to the quality and quantity of the tests. We can also use the duplication time, an indicator that shows every few days the number of contagions is doubled. The higher this figure means it takes the disease to spread.
Incidence by age and gender95% of fatalities in Spain are over 60 years old, according to cases where the age group has been reported, according to the Ministry of Health. Of these, the highest percentage of the dead is from the age of 80. As previous research progressed, the disease is more lethal in men than inwomen and, under the age of 50, barely fatalities are counted. As for the people infected, in global terms, the majority of those affected are 40 years old. Of these, the age range between 50 and 59 years is the one that adds up the most. There is hardly any contagion among minors.
In the worldThe focus of the pandemic is no longer found in China's Hubei province, where it was first detected in late 2019 and where local contagions are no longer reported. The United States is the country with the most positive, followed by Spain and Italy. In Asia, Iran, which has outperformed China in cases diagnosed, and in Africa, countries are slowly accounting for a slight but unstoppable increase in cases. South Africa, Egypt, Morocco and Algeria exceed 4,000 infected.
Coronavirus Europe panel In EuropeThe data from Spain is just a sample of how the virus has spread across Europe, where it has already infected almost one and a half million people. In Italy alone, more than 209,000 positives and 28,700 people are killed, although the number of new cases diagnosed, as in Spain, drops every day.
In AmericaThe United States, with 1.1 million people diagnosed, is the new epicenter, becoming the country in the world with the most positive identified. Also with more deaths: above 66,000 dead. The virus is also infecting people in other American countries. Brazil is the second most positive (97,000), followed by Canada, Peru, Ecuador, Mexico and Chile. It is already a dozen Latin American states that exceed 4,000 infected under the constant fear that the pace of new contagions, as happened in Europe, will begin to increase exponentially.
North America South Americahas collaborated in the elaboration of this report.
Sources: Spanish Ministry of Health (data from Spain) and John Hopkins University (data from other countries).