URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900038
ID : GPHN2020050400066

Date : 2020-05-03 18:57:00
Title : Door-to-door fever testing in Cachar district soon
Ariticle : 
SILCHAR, May 3 -- Following Government instructions, the Cachar District Health Society has decided to intensify the medical examination of people within the district in order to ensure there is no community transmission of COVID-19. Joint Director of Health Services, Dr Sudip Jyoti Das informed the media on Saturday that they are likely to start a door-to door medical examination campaign in the next few days to screen if anyone is suffering from fever. 'Since the season is prone to many diseases especially the Japanese Encephalitis and malaria, our medical teams shall reach out to people both in rural and urban areas to screen for fever screening. Also, we shall check if anyone, including those who would be returning home from other States and districts are bearing symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARI) or Influenza Like Illness (ILI) which might lead to COVID-19 among them,' Dr Das said.
 Echoing the Joint Director, Dr Ajit Bhattacharjee, District Surveillance Officer said that if there are any detection of SARI or ILI cases, the doctors in the medical teams shall determine the case in connection to COVID-19 and throat swab samples would be sent to Silchar Medical College and Hospital (SMCH) after uploading the list in the designated portal. 'There are over 17 lakh people living in the rural areas of the district together with more than 2 lakh urban population. We are gearing up to send our medical teams to each residence for proper surveillance and fever screening. The objective is to check and avert community transmission, should there be detection of COVID-19 positive cases. If anyone is found with the SARI or ILI symptoms, the patient and the concerned family member shall be kept in home quarantine till reports of the swab samples are available,' Dr Bhattacharjee maintained. Meanwhile, Dr Bhaskar Gupta, vice principal of SMCH informed that even as both COVID-19 positive patients are maintaining stable health, the first positive patient of the State is likely to undergo yet another swab sample test soon.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Assam Tribune.