URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006880605
ID : GPHN2020043000153

Date : 2020-04-30 10:17:00
Title : The world after COVID-19: Paradigm shifts in health and healthcare
Ariticle : 
Health and healthcare will see fundamental changes and it won't be business as usual. When we look at the successes in combating the pandemic, countries with strong public health systems have done well.
The world after COVID-19: Paradigm shifts in health and healthcare
The COVID-19 infection is already changing the way we think and live. Health and healthcare will also see fundamental changes and it will no longer be business as usual. Several paradigm shifts will take place in health and healthcare. We need to understand how these changes will impact our lives.
Public Health will be accorded its due place. When we look at the successes in combating the pandemic it is those countries with strong public health systems that have done well. The reason for South Korea doing so well has been attributed to its large number of tests but what is forgotten is that their strong public health system comprising of a strong surveillance system, universal health coverage and financial protection of the citizens played a major role. Even in India, for example, Kerala with its strong public health system has been the first state to virtually flatten the curve. Consequentially, we should expect an emphasis on public health approaches that include strong disease surveillance systems, disease prediction modellers, expansion of social insurance and ultimately a cadre of public health professionals on the lines of civil servants, with prevention and wellness being given a high priority. However, the government needs to offer salaries commensurate with their qualifications and experience to make this shift a successful and sustainable venture.
In the healthcare sector, there will huge shifts. Currently, there is underutilisation of technology-enabled innovative solutions in India, mainly due to the inertia in changing the status quo and challenging existing practices. Telemedicine is one such underutilized field in medicine and its advantages and benefits are brought to much-deserved focus in the current lockdown scenario. It is likely teleconsultations and telehealth will expand and reduce the load on the hospitals. The enthusiasm for telehealth is at the highest with the Indian government releasing the long-awaited Telemedicine Practice Guidelines on 25 March 2020. This has been endorsed by several state governments who proactively encouraged the medical fraternity to enable telemedicine consultations. Virtual clinics with a variety of health care workers will become the norm.
Examples of the utility of telehealth include screening for ophthalmological conditions, cancer follow-ups during remissions, chronic gastrointestinal problems, some acute and almost all chronic dermatological problems, reproductive health/contraception, sexual health problems, chronic urological problems, chronic respiratory ailments like asthma, COPD, certain heart conditions, rheumatological problems, chronic neurological conditions, treatment for chronic infections and palliative care services. Telepsychology and psychiatry have been tried and tested and are taking off at a faster pace. Telepathology and teleradiology have already proven to be beneficial in bridging the distance barrier and overcoming capacity constraints.
Machine learning (ML) and Artificial intelligence (AI) is here to stay. Smart electronic decision support systems aided by ML and AI will be utilized by doctors and nurses who cater to long term care of chronic diseases. Simple point of care diagnostic equipment and wearable devices will aid patients in self-care with more personalized recommendations and help build a true partnership with their health care providers. For example, patients with heart failure who develop complications can deteriorate very rapidly, needing hospital admissions resulting in high morbidity and death. However, there is a small window when this precipitous deterioration can be prevented with the aid of simple ICT tools and point of care devices. Remote monitoring of irregularities of the heartbeat which can result in stroke or sudden death will become cheaper and commonplace.
Surveillance for diseases like COVID-19 already has adopted technological solutions such as the Aarogya Setu app. National electronic health registries with master health data of the nation with create linkages across public and private health systems along with telehealth and health analytics, India can be at the forefront of medical research, track the performance of various initiatives, make better health policies, better pandemic responsiveness, and allocate budgets based on the real needs. Citizens' health record on the user side leads to better participation of people in taking control of their health. The National Health Stack, a visionary digital framework, provides direction for all stakeholders in India’s health system for years and decades to come.
The next shift will be home-based elderly care, rehabilitation and palliative care. This could include wellness practices, health promotion such as quitting tobacco, healthy diet and physical activity. Home-based yoga practices can be promoted for rehabilitation of patients who have suffered a stroke or myocardial infarction.
Continuing medical education will also see changes. While it may not entirely replace medical conferences, webinars and virtual educational platforms will become popular and frequent.
However, the two biggest elephants in the room will be equitable distribution and data privacy. Given the poor awareness and information asymmetry between the poor and rich, the less and better educated inequities will be evident. While universal health coverage may provide a base for equitable health care, innovative solutions such as self-help groups, community volunteers and healthy community initiatives may be needed. Further insurance coverage is virtually non-existent for prevention, and regulations will have to be tweaked to enable insurance coverage for preventive and promotive practices and use of telehealth.
The Covid-19 pandemic has started churning of the ocean. Though it may throw up some poison initially it will end with benefits to the population. Are we ready?
(With inputs from Dr Ramesh Byrapaneni, Managing Director, Endiya Partners)