URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006912169
ID : GPHN2020050600035

Date : 2020-05-05 16:47:00
Title : In areas of Mexico fear of violence is greater than COVID-19
Ariticle : 
MEXICO CITY (AP) — A disease may or may not cause fear. A bullet is always a bullet.
In the most isolated and violent corners of Mexico, where drug traffickers, criminals and armed groups have more presence than the state, the new coronavirus may be the last of the concerns.
For its inhabitants, the closeness of death or not being able to move freely are nothing new. Hundreds of communities from the arid deserts of the northern border to the southern jungles have been suffering for years curfews and threats.
Ending a bullet in the head, or simply disappearing, are real fears that make COVID-19 too abstract a danger, even though the disease is becoming increasingly life-threatening in Mexico.
"A lot of people don't believe it, they don't take care of the property, I think because of the situation we've been through," said a woman from Tamaulipas in the northeast of the country, one of the crudest scenarios of drug cartel violence. "They say if we haven't been killed by 10 years of war, we're not going to get killed by a virus." The woman asked for anonymity because in German Miguel City, the small town where she lives along the Texas border, talking to a journalist is always dangerous, even about an epidemic.
In Tamaulipas, whether among the maquilas that assemble washing machines or televisions to sell to the United States or on remote ranches, any place can be a hideout of migrants, weapons or drugs.
Mexico is heading to the peak of the pandemic, with 24,900 cases and nearly 2,300 dead, but violence continues. In 2019, homicide records were broken, more than 34,000. And April, at 3,000, was the month with the most murders since July 2018, according to official data. The country has more than 61,000 missing.
The pacification promised by the government of Andrés López Obrador has not yet arrived and organized crime continues to frighten the population, so the isolation that is so talked about in times of coronavirus is not new.
"We've been quarantined for 10 years," the woman lamented. "It's not hard to stay home anymore."
At some points the changes are almost aesthetic.
Agua Prieta is a dusty border town by the desert between Sonora and Arizona. From this illegal drug and migrant crossing into the United States, a humanitarian worker said that the street drug dealer now wears a headache and that crime is used to give away food and necessities. Various posters have done image campaigns in various parts of the country, some with advertising from their leaders drawn in boxes handed out by their own relatives. Lopez Obrador denounced it, but said it was inevitable.
Through the Tarahumara mountain range, the steep mountains of the northern state of Chihuahua where crime controls the steps, drugs and felling of trees, military make tours inviting the village to take precautions against COVID-19, told a neighbor of Sisoguichi. But the armed don't rest, little worried about the health emergency.
"It may sound very cold but if we compare the deaths from violence and those of the pandemic, because they are more the first," the young man who is also afraid to give his name because just a few days ago a group went into shooting the village, killed four people, including a minor, and took two others, one of whom appeared dead. "Wearing head covers and gloves don't protect one of the bullets."
Man doesn't minimize disease. With a specialist doctor 300 kilometers away you can imagine what would happen if the coronavirus slides through those glens crossed by roads of terracería and also fears its economic effects. But he claims that other people are suspicious.
"Many say they are gossip to scare people, that it won't come to them, theyare government inventions," he said. "There's a lot of disbelief."
Explanations to these attitudes can be several: misinformation, lack of credibility in the authorities, denial as a survival mechanism.
Psychotherapist and trauma expert Susana Uribe spoke of a "desensitization" toward the violence of those living with death nearby. "If you already live in fear, what's going to scare you a virus?"
No one but the people of Sinaloa - in the North Pacific - knows violence. But unlike the rest of the remote places mentioned above, they also know what coronavirus is: 92 people died from COVID-19 in a month and 74 in homicides.
In the most popular neighborhoods of Culiacan, a city where dead kingpins have more luxuries than living Sinaloans, life continues almost normally.
"The narcos, the bosses, they bring fear, they are even in their bunkers fearing contagion, they know they can die for it," said Juan Carlos Ayala, a violence expert at the Autonomous University of Sinaloa. "They're worried when they know someone's coming from the city, especially from Culiacan," he added. "Of course the wave of violence doesn't stop, they're killing themselves the same way they used to."
In the mountains, a fiefdom of the sign that takes the name of the state and land of peasants, a neighbor told that fewer vehicles are seen on the road and that most people stocked up on necessities so that they don't have to go so far to the capital.
Nestor Rubiano, mental health expert of Doctors Without Borders, gave another example: in the villages of the Sierra de Guerrero, a traditional poppy crop area where enemy armed groups control every access, as soon as doctors arrive. That's why many communities decided to isolate themselves.
"If the virus arrives and someone gets sick, where would I go? Because the nearest hospital is hours away, that's if you're treated," Rubiano explained. "And another. Is he going to be able to get out? Because if the opposing actor is there what he's going to do is he's going to kill him along the way... That's why they take their own self-care measures."
But others can't confine themselves so easily.
Adolfo López, leader of the aldama community, in the highlands of Chiapas, the forested mountains further south, said that they have abided by all the recommendations of the authorities: they have filter to control entrances and exits and minimize contagions, suspended religious and popular activities and even have antibacterial gel. But it's no good when the shooting starts and they have to run out and leave their homes.
In that area, old land conflicts degenerated into the control of the territory by various armed groups. Lopez dared not say to whom they can be linked, he only assured one thing: they have frightened the population.
People have to flee their homes and hide in the bush under plastics and tardies, a reality that has been keeping some 2,000 people intermittently displaced for more than two years. Various national and international organizations have warned of the risk of pandemic in these populations.
Last week there were eight homes damaged by gunfire and there is fear even of lighting the light so that the smoke does not alert the attackers, the indigenous leader said.
"We are living under fire and aggression, that's more troubling than the coronavirus," he warned. "Besides, the government's recommendation is to stay home, but which house?"