URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006882697
ID : GPHN2020050100115

Date : 2020-04-30 08:53:00
Title : UK coronavirus live: minister admits government likely to miss testing target - The Guardian
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus outbreak
UK coronavirus news: 'We are past the peak' says Boris Johnson as deaths in all settings rise by 674
Official UK death toll reaches 26,711; ‘We are on a downward slope,’ says PM, who will unveil plan to lead Britain out of lockdown next week; 81,000 tests carried out on Wednesday
Thu 30 Apr 2020 17.27 BST
First published on Thu 30 Apr 2020 07.35 BST
17:27
Johnson says government may find new 'ingenious ways' to fight coronavirus
Q: There have been 26,000 deaths since you last stood at that lectern. And huge economic damage has been done. Are you telling people they will have to wait before you can reopen the economy?
Johnson says we mourn for lives lost, but for the economic damage too. People’s dreams are being shattered. The government has made a huge effort to protect people. It is doing everything it can. He pays tribute to Rishi Sunak. But if the UK is to bounce back as strongly as it can, we must not have another bout of this, or “another bad spike”. That is why we have to calibrate our measures so carefully, he says.
That might involve finding “new ways, more ingenious ways” of suppressing the disease too.
Q: What level has R have to be?
Whitty says there is no obvious answer. But it must be below 1. If it is above 1, exponential growth in the disease will happen.
But he warns that there are other health impacts of coronavirus.
Vallance says before this we were talking of the “doubling time” of the epidemic. We are now talking about the “halving time” he says.
Johnson says UK now 'past the peak'
Johnson says that at no stage has the NHS been overwhelmed.
He says the UK avoided an “uncontrollable and catastrophic” epidemic that could have caused 500,000 deaths.
He says he can confirm that the UK is now “past the peak”.
(In fact, that has been obvious for some time.)
He says the UK will have to beat this “by our resolve and ingenuity”.
He says he will publish a comprehensive plan next week.
It will cover three things: how we can restart the economy; how we can get our children back to school; and how we can get people into work.
There will be five key tests, he says.
First, we must be able to protect the NHS and its ability to cope.
Second, there must be a sustained fall in deaths.
Third, the infection rate must be falling.
Fourth, we must deal with the challenges of testing and PPE.
And, fifth, we must ensure that there is no second peak that could overwhelm the NHS.
He says we can see the pasture ahead of us. But it is vital not to run straight into another disaster.
That means nothing we do can lift the R, the reproduction number, above 1.
Updated