URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006907977
ID : GPHN2020050500124

Date : 2020-05-01 04:00:00
Title : Cedars-Sinai Medical Center; COVID-19: Cedars-Sinai physician co-authors analysis of antiviral drug
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- LOS ANGELES () -- In a small group of patients hospitalized with severe complications of COVID-19 and treated with the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir, clinical improvement was observed in 68% of patients treated, according to an analysis co-authored by Jonathan Grein, MD, director of Hospital Epidemiology at Cedars-Sinai.
The experimental therapy was given to patients through a "compassionate use" program that allows providers access to treatments not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration when a patient has a life-threatening condition and no other options are available.
The analysis, published online today by The New England Journal of Medicine, evaluated data from 53 patients in the U.S, Europe, Canada and Japan who received at least one dose of remdesivir by March 7. The effort was led by Gilead Sciences, the pharmaceutical company that makes the experimental drug.
The study shows:
"Currently there is no proven treatment for COVID-19. We cannot draw definitive conclusions from these data, but the observations from this group of hospitalized patients who received remdesivir are hopeful," said Grein, who also leads the Special Pathogens Response Team at Cedars-Sinai. "We look forward to the results of controlled clinical trials to potentially validate these findings."
Cedars-Sinai is continuing to explore remdesivir as a therapeutic option for patients as part of a large international randomized controlled study sponsored by the NIH.
Compassionate use programs are less stringent than a randomized controlled study, which compares patients who are receiving the experimental treatment to patients receiving the standard treatment. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, compassionate use data can help scientists understand potential risks and can offer a glimpse into whether an experimental treatment might or might not be viable.
"It's critical that the medical community finds a safe and effective treatment for COVID-19 that's supported by solid data," Grein said. "I'm very proud that Cedars-Sinai is contributing to the global effort to find that solution."
Keywords for this news article include: Viral, COVID-19, Virology, SARS-CoV-2, RNA Viruses, Epidemiology, Clinical Research, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Clinical Trials and Studies, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC