URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006883285
ID : GPHN2020050100079

Date : 2020-04-30 20:18:00
Title : Child-care accessibility in Saskatchewan schools expanding with reopen plan
Ariticle : 
People returning to work under the first two phases of the Reopen Saskatchewan plan will have access to licensed child-care services, according to the government.
Over 2,100 spaces in 47 school-based centres continue to operate as part of a reserved supply for coronavirus pandemic response workers, according to a press release.
Government officials said there is capacity within that supply to expand accessibility to other workers starting on May 4.
“As we move to gradually reopen Saskatchewan, we know that parents, caregivers and families returning to work will need child care support, and we are helping them by ensuring their children are safe and well cared for,” Education Minister Gordon Wyant said in a press release on Thursday.
[ Sign up for our Health IQ newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]
“I want to recognize and extend my sincere appreciation to child care centres and staff who have continued to operate to provide this important service.”
The centres within Saskatchewan schools will continue to operate within the guidelines provided by Saskatchewan’s chief medical health officer, which includes a maximum of eight children per room.
The application form for in-school child-care centres can be found on the government’s website.
Government officials said roughly 350 non-school-based child-care centres and homes also continue to operate.
Questions about COVID-19? Here are some things you need to know:
Health officials caution against all international travel. Returning travellers are legally obligated to self-isolate for 14 days, beginning March 26, in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others. Some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self-isolate.
Symptoms can include fever, cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu. Some people can develop a more severe illness. People most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease. If you develop symptoms, contact public health authorities.
To prevent the virus from spreading, experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve. They also recommend minimizing contact with others, staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out.
For full COVID-19 coverage from Global News, click here.