URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006872501
ID : GPHN2020042900228

Date : 2020-04-29 09:55:00
Title : Covid-19 Responses: New Kazakh military subunit to deal with biological threats
Ariticle : 
Excerpt from report by privately-owned Kazakh news website Zakon.kz on 28 April
A new subunit has been set up at the General Staff of the Kazakh Armed Forces, Zakon.kz reports. The Defence Ministry said that at a meeting it had discussed the mid-term results of the Armed Forces' participation in countering the spread of the coronavirus and the new stage of addressing challenges.
At the instruction of the Kazakh president and commander-in-chief [Kasym-Zhomart Tokayev], close attention is being paid to the fight against the spread of the coronavirus. Biological protection subunits are carrying out disinfection operations in all of the country's regions. Over the past five weeks, socially-important facilities with the total area of 36m square kilometres and over 2,500 km of roads have been disinfected.
In modern reality, when radiation, chemical and biological protection troops are fighting the dangerous virus, the spectrum of threats increases and the requirements for an adequate response to them are also raised.
The defence minister [Nurlan Yermekbayev] said at the ministry meeting that there was a long-standing need for reformatting and reinforcing the radiation, chemical and biological protection troops. To do this, the department for radiation, chemical and biological protection troops and environmental security has been set up at the General Staff of the Armed Forces. Before this reorganisation, the directorate for radiation, chemical and biological protection troops and environmental security, which was a structural subunit of the department for engineering troops under the General Staff of the Armed Forces, was responsible for radiation, chemical and biological protection operations.
The new subunit is tasked with completing within the shortest period of time the blueprint for the development of the radiation, chemical and biological protection system of the Armed Forces taking into account modern threats, the capacity of the troops and development trends in the defence and industrial sector in the world's leading countries.
The health of [defence] personnel and their family members is another important issue. Nurlan Yermekbayev ordered that categories of military men with a higher risk of infection be identified, and the state of health of those servicemen whose family members due to their occupation come in contact with a large number of people, be monitored.
Restrictions that were earlier introduced in troops and military camps are being especially monitored. In particular, regular disinfection measures are being strictly monitored at all military facilities, especially in military camps and areas where duty guards perform their service around-the-clock, military barracks, canteens, roadblocks, as well as transport vehicles. Special measures were taken to isolate conscripted soldiers.
Military units and institutions have been closed for visits by outsiders, and events with the mass participation of personnel, long line-ups, foreign trips and holidays are restricted.
Stocks of medicines, disinfecting substances, medical masks and gloves have been replenished. Preventive work is being carried out to monitor the health of servicemen and to take timely quarantine measures to reveal signs of infection and contact. Additionally, all the personnel were informed of signs of coronavirus infection, leaflets on ensuring public order and pocket booklets on the prevention of Covid-19 were disseminated.
[Passage omitted: details of more such work; the minister also discussed other issues]
Source: Zakon.kz in Russian 0710 gmt 28 Apr 20