URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006866051
ID : GPHN2020042900016

Date : 2020-04-28 14:32:00
Title : Coronavirus 'unlikely' to be eradicated and 'may keep returning like flu', say experts
Ariticle : 
The predictions echo the UK's chief medical officer professor Chris Whitty's chilling warning that restrictions will be in place across the country for the rest of the year
Scientists claim coronavirus is unlikely to be eradicated and may return each year like seasonal flu.
The Chinese experts' predictions echo what the UK's chief medical officer, professor Chris Whitty chillingly warned last week.
Professor Whitty said the country is unlikely to return to normal, until a vaccine can be found, as it has for the flu.
The Chinese viral and medical researchers told reporters in Beijing that the virus is not likely to disappear like SARS, because it can infect carriers who have no idea they have symptoms and are passing on silently to others.
The researchers said Chinese health officials are still confirming dozens of asymptomatic carriers every day.
Jin Qi, director of the Institute of Pathogen Biology at the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, said: "This is very likely to be an epidemic that co-exists with humans for a long time, becomes seasonal and is sustained within human bodies."
The Chinese experts added they have found no evidence that the virus’ spread will slow during the summer as they could never reach the temperature need to wipe it out.
Wang Guiqiang, head of the infectious diseases department of Peking University First Hospital, said: "The virus is heat sensitive, but that’s when it’s exposed to 56 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes and the weather is never going to get that hot.
"So globally, even during the summer, the chance of cases going down significantly is small.”
Last week professor Whitty warned the restrictions could remain in the UK for the rest of the year, while a vaccine is found, tested and rolled out.
"In the long run, the exit from this is going to be one of two things, ideally. A vaccine, and there are a variety of ways they can be deployed... or, and or, highly effective drugs so that people stop dying of this disease even if they catch it, or which can prevent this disease in vulnerable people.
"Until we have those, and the probability of having those any time in the next calendar year are incredibly small and I think we should be realistic about that.
"We're going to have to rely on other social measures, which of course are very socially disruptive as everyone is finding at the moment.
"But until that point, that is what we will have to do but it will be the best combination that maximises the outlooks but it's going to take a long time and I think we need to be aware of that."
Prof Whitty added there is still not an antibody test available that Public Health England has enough confidence in to provide an idea of how many people in the UK have had coronavirus.
"The problem we have had is we do not yet have a test that is as good as we would want," he said.
"Many different people are trying to work on an improved test -there are fairly good tests on this at the moment but there are not very good tests.
"This is one of the critical bits of information we need to make decisions and I'm hoping -but I've been hoping for a while so I don't want to over-promise on this -that we will shortly have tests that are good enough to get at least a ranging shot of what proportion of people in different age ranges, in different parts of the country, have had this virus."