URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006902574
ID : GPHN2020050400180

Date : 2020-05-01 06:45:00
Title : CohBar’s Abstract for the American Thoracic Society 2020 International Conference Published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine
Ariticle : 
MENLO PARK, California, May 1 -- CohBar, Inc. issued the following news release:
CohBar, Inc. (NASDAQ: CWBR), a clinical stage biotechnology company developing mitochondria based therapeutics to treat chronic diseases and extend healthy lifespan, announced its poster abstract for the  American Thoracic Society (ATS) 2020 International Conference was published in today’s edition of the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine. CohBar’s poster will contain data on a family of novel analogs of a peptide encoded in mitochondrial DNA, demonstrating beneficial effects in mouse models of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF).
The American Thoracic Society is the world's leading medical association dedicated to advancing clinical and scientific understanding of pulmonary diseases, critical illnesses and sleep-related breathing disorders. Today, it has grown into an international society with more than 16,000 members. The conference, which was scheduled to be held May 15-20 in Philadelphia, PA, has been cancelled. The American Thoracic Society is currently exploring options for providing select elements of the conference content including ePosters in an online format later this year.
In December 2019, CohBar announced preclinical data confirming the therapeutic potential of a novel CohBar peptide, MBT2. In a therapeutic mouse model of IPF, MBT2 reduced lung fibrosis, inflammation, and collagen levels when administered for 14 days beginning 7 days after fibrosis was induced. IPF is a chronic, progressive, debilitating and usually fatal lung disease that results in the scarring of the lungs, also known as fibrosis, and represents a high unmet medical need affecting approximately 100,000 patients in the U.S.
CohBar’s abstract can be viewed by visiting: https://www.abstractsonline.com/pp8/#!/8998/presentation/17590.
Poster Presentation Information
Session: A62 - LUNG FIBROSIS: INSIGHTS FROM THE BENCH
Poster #A2261: MBT2, a Novel Analog of a Mitochondrially Encoded Peptide, Inhibits Fibrogenesis in Cultured Human Lung Cells and Is Effective in Mouse
Models of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF)
Date & Time: Further information to be announced when available.
Updates on the ATS program can be viewed by visiting: https://conference.thoracic.org/.
About CohBar
CohBar (NASDAQ: CWBR) is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the research and development of mitochondria based therapeutics, an emerging class of drugs for the treatment of chronic and age-related diseases. Mitochondria based therapeutics originate from the discovery by CohBar’s founders of a novel group of naturally occurring mitochondrial-derived peptides within the mitochondrial genome that regulate metabolism and cell death, and whose biological activity declines with age. To date, the company has discovered more than 100 mitochondrial derived peptides and generated over 1,000 analogs. CohBar’s efforts focus on the development of these peptides into therapeutics that offer the potential to address a broad range of diseases, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), obesity, fibrotic diseases, cancer, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. The company’s lead compound, CB4211, is in the Phase 1b stage of a Phase 1a/1b clinical trial for NASH and obesity.  This clinical trial is currently paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, CohBar has four preclinical programs, two in cancer, one in fibrotic diseases and one in type 2 diabetes.
For additional company information, please visit www.cohbar.com.
Source: CohBar, Inc.