URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006903901
ID : GPHN2020050400228

Date : 2020-05-04 12:00:00
Title : Italians allowed to exercise in parks and visit relatives as Europe eases out of coronavirus lockdown
Ariticle : 
Italians were today enjoying the chance to exercise in parks for the first time in eight weeks as their country took its first significant steps out of its coronaviruslockdown.
People were also allowed to visit relatives as long as they wore face masks, while restaurants began serving takeaway food as curbs imposed to suppress one of Europe’s worst Covid-19 outbreaks were tentatively eased.
The changes are the first phase in a staged exit from lockdown set out by prime minister Giuseppe Conte which will see most shops reopen in a fortnight.
Mr Conte made clear that the easing of curbs would only work if Italians continued to follow social distancing, telling La Stampa newspaper: “We are still in the full throes of the pandemic.” He added the easing of restrictions “must not be seen as a signal that we’re all free”.
There was initial confusion, however, about visiting rules after the government said that trips to see anyone with whom a person has a “stable bond of affection” would be allowed, until a clarification making clear that this did not include friends, only relatives.
“But we are also apprehensive because they are old and my father-in-law has cancer so is high risk.” Today’s relaxation came after Italy, which has suffered 28,884 deaths from Covid-19, recorded its lowest daily death toll with 174 lives lost over a 24-hour period.
In Germany, people were queueing for a much-needed trim as barbers and hairdressers reopened after weeks of closure. Staff were required to wear masks and no drinks or magazines were allowed to be provided.
In Portugal, local shops, hairdressers, beauty salons, book shops and car dealerships began to reopen, while Greece also lifted some restrictions after a 42-day lockdown.
The changes mean that Greeks are no longer restricted as to why they can leave their homes, and do not need to send a text message or carry a self-written permit justifying being outdoors.
Hair salons and book shops were also reopening, with strict hygiene and social distancing measures in place, as part of what authorities have said will be a staggered reopening of the country’s economy.
At the same time, in Spain, where the 164 deaths announced yesterday was the country’s lowest death toll in six weeks, the wearing of masks today became compulsory on public transport.