URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006893248
ID : GPHN2020050200168

Date : 2020-05-01 21:02:00
Title : Mass testing at Sarnia-Lambton seniors’ homes to be completed soon - Sarnia Observer
Ariticle : 
Mass testing at Sarnia-Lambton seniors’ homes to be completed soon
More from Terry Bridge
Published on: May 1, 2020 | Last Updated: May 1, 2020 5:55 PM EDT
Landmark Village, a retirement home in Sarnia, has been hit hard by the COVID-19 outbreak. Paul Morden / The Observer
Share Adjust Comment Print
Nine of Sarnia-Lambton’s seniors’ homes have been mass tested for COVID-19 as of Friday, and public health officials aim to have the rest of the local facilities tested by the end of next week.
Ontario urged mass testing at long-term care and retirement homes after several deadly outbreaks rocked facilities across the country during the first few weeks of the pandemic, including Landmark Village in Sarnia.
“We’re about halfway through them,” Dr. Sudit Ranade, Lambton’s medical officer of health, said Friday.
The three homes still dealing with outbreaks – Landmark, Sumac Lodge and Vision Nursing Home – have all been tested, as has Lambton Meadowview Villa – an outbreak ended there just over a week ago – Fiddick’s, North Lambton Lodge, Watford Quality Care, Twin Lakes Terrace and Trillium Villa. Up next are Afton Park Place, Marshall Gowland Manor, Country Manor, Brookside Retirement Home, Albany Village, Rosewood Manor and Village on the St. Clair.
The testing is projected to be completed by the end of next week, Ranade said.
“Granted, they’re just projections,” he said, “if everything stays the same and the teams aren’t diverted to another priority.”
Thirty Landmark Village residents and 10 staff have tested positive and six of the region’s 14 deaths are linked to the home. Vision has four residents and two employees who’ve contracted the virus, as has one staffer at Sumac Lodge.
None of those numbers changed Friday as health officials reported just one more confirmed case – the region’s 183rd – but tests are coming back fairly quickly, Ranade said.
Tests are coming back fairly quickly, although they’re being sent to different labs due to volume, he said.
“We’ll have to see how that plays out over the next week or so,” Ranade said.
Nine per cent of the 2,111 tests have come back positive while 90 people have recovered, but it’s not clear how many of the people who have recovered are linked to seniors’ homes.
“Once somebody’s been identified to have recovered that we are following, then we put them into that category and then they get rolled up into that one number,” he said.
No new deaths have been reported since April 20.
Bluewater Health reported Friday nine patients with confirmed cases of COVID-19 were being treated at the hospital, two fewer than the previous day. Another 18 patients with suspected cases were waiting for test results, one less than Thursday.
The emergency order banning outdoor fires in Sarnia during the pandemic was set to expire Sunday, but the city issued another order Friday to extend that ban to the end of the month. The lone exception is rural burn permits, which will be issued to allow farmers to clear brush from fields.
“We understand the desire to sit outside and relax around a fire with members of your home and the frustration felt by some,” Brian Arnold, Sarnia’s fire chief, said in a statement. “We appreciate your continued patience and thank everyone who is sacrificing for us all. Please stay the course a little longer as we look for indicators from the province and medical officer of health to ease restrictions.”