URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006880074
ID : GPHN2020043000136

Date : 2020-04-29 07:10:00
Title : COVID-19 update: Salons to reopen May 6; Also: Mass testing in Nashville's homeless shelters, Hall of Fame extends closure
Ariticle : 
The Tennessee Department of Health has confirmed 10,366 cases of COVID-19 across the state, up 314 cases from the number on Tuesday afternoon.
Nearly 6,600 tests were processed and reported during the same time frame, bringing the statewide total to 168,600 people tested — nearly one for every 40 Tennessee residents.
Across the state, 1,013 individuals have been hospitalized and 195 people have died. Those numbers are up 132 and seven, respectively, since Tuesday.
The state has received more than $2 billion in one-time federal relief funding through the CARES act, part of which will go toward funding care for uninsured patients after the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services declined to approve a $104 million waiver to increase funding through TennCare to cover the costs.
Instead, the federal government will reimburse hospitals directly for care rendered since Feb. 8, and Gov. Bill Lee said the state's Medicaid program will contribute an additional $30 million to the cause.
With the rest of the funds, Lee said he plans to enhance testing, supply personal protective equipment and other resources to businesses reopening as well as supplement budget downfalls caused by the pandemic.
After issuing an executive order allowing for most nonessential businesses to reopen by Friday and lifting the state's shut-in mandate, Lee told lawmakers on Wednesday he plans to reopen salons and barbershops (nothwithstanding those located in the state six most populated counties) on Wednesday, May 6. No guidance or updates on those reopenings have been provided from the governor's office at this time.
Restaurants and retail shops reopened across 89 of Tennessee's 95 counties at limited capacity this week. Lee said those businesses are abiding by social distancing guidelines and wearing masks and gloves when appropriate. No data on how the reopenings have impacted the virus' spread is yet available. However, Health Commissioner Lisa Piercey says the growth rate continues to fall.
Metro Nashville confirmed 24 new cases since Tuesday, bringing the overall total in Davidson County to 2,618 cases of COVID-19. Of those, about 1,260 cases are currently active and 24 people have died. Metro health officials have stopped reporting the current hospitalization tally for county residents. Nearly 25,000 residents have been tested.
Metro Coronavirus Task Force Chairman Alex Jahangir said in a press briefing Wednesday morning said public health officials have identified an isolated outbreak of COVID-19 at the Fairgrounds facilities housing homeless individuals, and that mass testing is underway. He said four individuals have tested positive so far and another 13 are isolating.
Last week, Jahangir said more than 300 tests were administered at Trevecca Center for Rehabilitation and Healing after multiple cases of the virus were confirmed within the long term care facility. According to the state Department of Health data, Trevecca has so far confirmed 45 cases of COVID-19 and no deaths.
Among the four long-term care facilities in Nashville listed on the state Department of Health website as having been exposed to the virus, a total of 79 COVID-19 cases have been reported.
Hall of Fame extends closure
Officials with the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum have extended their facility's closure through May 31.
The decision also affects the museum's Hatch Show Print, Historic RCA Studio B and CMA Theater properties. The downtown landmark in late March said it would initially close its doors through the end of April.
"The health and safety of our staff and guests are our top priority," said Kyle Young, CEO of the Hall of Fame. "As we look toward reopening, we will have specific measures and protocols in place and will do all that we can to help ensure a safe and healthy environment for our visitors, employees and the community."