URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006882702
ID : GPHN2020050100032

Date : 2020-04-29 21:13:00
Title : Coronavirus: LHSC patients dip as intensive cases drop by half - The London Free Press
Ariticle : 
Coronavirus: LHSC patients dip as intensive cases drop by half
Author of the article:
18 hours ago  •  2 minute read
The emergency department of the London Health Sciences Centre (File photo)
Article Sidebar
Trending
Article content
The number of coronavirus patients in intensive care at Southwestern Ontario’s largest hospital dropped by half Wednesday to the lowest level in more than four weeks.
Six people are in intensive care or critical care beds at London Health Sciences Centre’s two hospitals Wednesday, down from 12 people the previous day.
We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
Try refreshing your browser, or
tap here to see other videos from our team .
Coronavirus: LHSC patients dip as intensive cases drop by half Back to video
The total number of people hospitalized in critical, intensive or acute care beds at LHSC’s University Hospital and Victoria Hospital was 32 Wednesday, down from 36 reported the day before — the hospital’s highest coronavirus inpatient tally since March 31.
One of the four new deaths reported by the Middlesex-London Health Unit Wednesday, a man in his 80s who was not a resident of a retirement home or long-term care facility, died in intensive care at a London hospital, medical officer of health Chris Mackie said.
The other three deaths are associated with retirement homes or long-term care, the health unit said. It’s not clear whether the individuals were in hospital.
Advertisement
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content continued
London-area public health officials reported nine new COVID-19 cases Wednesday, bringing its total case count to 393. Of those, 212 are considered resolved and recovered. There have been 36 COVID-19 deaths reported to date.
The number of people in intensive care or critical care beds at LHSC had held relatively steady in the last month, moving between nine and 12 since April 10.
“There’s no doubt the pandemic is having an impact in health care in London and Middlesex County. It’s great that we have been able to see those numbers stabilize,” Mackie said.
“The main thing that tells you is that the people in London and Middlesex have been doing a great job of respecting public health measures. . . . That’s really a credit to the people of this region.”
Anticipating a surge of critically ill COVID-19 patients, LHSC tripled its critical care and ventilator capacity to 184 and put up a field hospital at the Western Fair District Agriplex for non-critical patients. The pop-up hospital, erected in early April at a cost of about $800,000, remains unused.
Provincewide, there are 977 people hospitalized with COVID-19, including 235 in critical care as of Tuesday.