URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006879319
ID : GPHN2020043000129

Date : 2020-04-30 04:42:00
Title : US: More than 70% of inmates tested give COVID positive
Ariticle : 
WASHINGTON (AP) — Michael Fleming was unable to say goodbye to his father. I didn't know he was failing to hook up to a ventilator after being diagnosed with coronavirus at the federal prison where he was serving his sentence on a drug charge.
His father, also named Michael, was being held in a Los Angeles federal prison and died on April 19. At least half of the inmates there have tested positive for the virus, and it has become the largest known infectious outbreak within the federal prison system. But the first news the family received about the father's illness was when he died, by the prison chaplain who asked if the body should be cremated and where they should send the ashes.
"They just didn't give us information," Fleming said in an interview with The Associated Press. "We had to find out in the news what was the real cause of death."
The Federal Bureau of Prisons' response to the growing coronavirus crisis in prisons has caused alarm among activists and lawmakers as to whether the agency is doing enough to ensure the safety of the approximately 150,000 inmates serving a sentence in federal facilities.
And while the authorities have said that rates of contagion and deaths within prisons are lower than in the rest of the country, new figures provided by the Federal Bureau of Prisons showed that of 2,700 tests conducted system-wide, nearly 2,000 have yielded positive results, implying that there are many more cases of COVID-19 that have not been detected.
At the same time, the Federal Bureau of Prisons' communication policies leave families without information about the life-threatening condition of their relatives.
Fleming, 59, was serving a 20-year sentence for a criminal association charge related to illegal drugs. The agency did not notify Fleming's family when he was taken to hospital or when his condition worsened.
"Having the opportunity to say goodbye, that would have been invaluable," his son said. "We'll never get that chance."
According to Federal Bureau of Prisons policies, the entity must "quickly" notify relatives of inmates with serious illnesses. But the agency, which confirmed that the family was not initially notified, has "discretion on when it makes notifications," according to a spokeswoman.
Prison officials noted that they are doing their best in extreme circumstances and follow guidelines developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
As of Wednesday, 30 inmates, including Fleming, had died of coronavirus in federal prisons since late March. About 600 have recovered.
___
The Associated Press journalists Michael R. Sisak and Larry Neumeister in New York contributed to the firm.