URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006911534
ID : GPHN2020050600012

Date : 2020-05-05 14:45:00
Title : France discovers Covid patient undiagnosed December
Ariticle : 
(Bloomberg) -- A hospitalized patient with flu-like symptoms in late December in France turned out to have had Covid-19, suggesting that the new coronavirus was spreading across the country at least a month earlier than official records show.
The 42-year-old fishmonger went to a hospital near Paris on 27 December with a cough, headache and fever and was treated with antibiotics and discharged after two days. Doctors discovered that he had Covid-19 by retroactively analyzing his respiratory samples along with other hospitalized patients and exposed the work in a case report.
This conclusion contradicts official statistics, which show that the first cases of Covid-19 in France occurred in people who returned from Wuhan, China, in late January. They also raise questions about how the patient became infected. Virologists who studied major strains of the virus circulating in France last month concluded that they probably did not come directly from China or Italy, and that they had been spreading without diagnosis for some time.
"Identifying the first infected patient is of great epidemiological interest, as it drastically changes our knowledge of Sars-CoV-2 and its spread in the country," Yves Cohen, head of intensive care at two large hospitals in northeast Paris, and his colleagues in the report, wrote. "Similarly, the absence of a link with China and the absence of recent travel suggest that the disease was already spreading throughout the population in France at the end of December."
The researchers said the official figures, which estimate covid-19 cases in France in 203,253, probably underestimate the impact of the disease and said the study's findings could "change our understanding of the dynamics of the epidemic."
A World Health Organization spokesman said other countries could reach similar findings by conducting new tests on samples of patients who were ill in December and January.
"It's the old story of the more you look at it, the more you find it," WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier said at a press conference on Tuesday.
Cohen and his team reviewed the medical records of patients admitted from early December to mid-January. Researchers selected 14 frozen respiratory samples from people with Covid-19-like symptoms that had not tested positive for other coronaviruses or influenza. When one tested positive for Sars-CoV-2, they confirmed the result with another more accurate test, which verified the sample quality.
The patient, an Algerian-born man who had not traveled to his home country since August, had a medical history of asthma and type 2 diabetes.
He arrived in the emergency room on December 27 with a cough of blood, headache and fever that had developed in the last four days. A CT scan of the lungs showed an opaque image, which usually indicates tissue damage and abnormalities. He was admitted to intensive care, treated with antibiotics and discharged on 29 December after improvement.
It seems that one of the man's children had flu-like symptoms before the patient developed his own. It is likely that "many asymptomatic patients were not diagnosed during January 2020 and contributed to the spread of this epidemic," the authors wrote.
Original Note:France Discovers Undiagnosed Coronavirus Patient From Last Year
©2020 Bloomberg L.P.