URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006877056
ID : GPHN2020043000094

Date : 2020-04-29 01:10:00
Title : Maryland takes steps to combat Covid-19 outbreaks at nursing homes, poultry plants
Ariticle : 
Gov. Larry Hogan announced new measures intended to fight coronavirus outbreaks in Maryland, including universal testing at nursing homes and a new testing site for workers at the state’s poultry plants.
During a press conference in Annapolis Wednesday, Hogan said the state is partnering with the federal government to address outbreaks at meat plants in the Delmarva region, including at plants in Wicomico County. Hogan also announced that he had signed an executive order requiring nursing homes to implement more procedures aimed at stopping the spread of Covid-19.
The new actions are part of the state’s move to intensify both containment and mitigation efforts by targeting and isolating outbreaks and clusters, Hogan said.
The governor last week laid out his three-stage plan to eventually reopen Maryland but reiterated again on Wednesday that the plan will not be implemented until both hospitalization rates and intensive care unit admissions plateau. Hogan had previously said he hoped that could come in early May.
“We are no longer just playing defense, we are going on offense against this virus, attacking it from every angle with everything we’ve got,” he said.
Hogan announced Wednesday that he has signed an executive order aimed at containing outbreaks at nursing homes. There are over 4,000 cases of Covid-19 at 143 nursing homes around the state and although these outbreaks account for only 19% of state cases, they make up 46% of the state’s deaths, Hogan said.
The executive order mandates the following:
* Universal testing of all residents and staff at nursing homes regardless of symptoms. Facilities will be prioritized based on an imminent outbreak or a rising threat of one.
* Residents must be evaluated daily by a physician, nurse practitioner, physician’s assistant or registered nurse.
* Nursing homes must comply with the “strike teams” deployed by the state.
* All nursing homes must develop surge staffing plans. To help with this, Hogan also announced the creation of “bridge teams,” which are comprised of a registered nurse and five to seven aides, capable of caring for 100 residents per shift. The state has contracted 260 registered nurses and aides for this effort through Allegis Group and the Maryland Hospital Association.
* Nursing homes must provide regular informational updates to residents, their family members and staff.
* Maryland State Surgeon Col. Eric Allely has been tapped as the new emergency safety and compliance officer for nursing homes and will be tasked with leading a multi-agency team that will ensure nursing homes are complying with state law.
Part of that strategy also involves working with the federal government and neighboring states to tamp down outbreaks at meat processing plants, which are not only sickening and killing many workers but also threaten the nation’s food supply.
Maryland has at least 262 lab-confirmed cases of Covid-19 associated with poultry workers, many of those in Wicomico County, which now has the fifth-highest case rate per 1,000 in the state. That rate is almost equal to that of Baltimore City and higher than Baltimore County, two jurisdictions with vastly more residents than rural Wicomico County, Hogan said.
Hogan first raised the issue with Vice President Mike Pence during a call Friday and requested federal aid. Delaware Gov. John Carney and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam also joined Hogan in writing a letter to President Donald Trump requesting assistance for dealing with outbreaks at plants in the Delmarva region.
As a result, a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) team is expected to arrive Wednesday night and a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) liaison has been appointed to expedite federal aid, Hogan said.
Maryland has sent state epidemiologists to the affected areas and also deployed an incident management team. A testing site will also be set up at Perdue Stadium in Salisbury specifically to test workers at the Perdue Farms plant in Salisbury and at the Amick Farms plant in Hurlock.
Hogan also addressed continue problems with the state’s new unemployment website, which was launched Friday but has encountered numerous technical issues and crashes.
Despite this, more than 245,000 accounts have been created on the site since Friday and more than 100,000 new claims have been filed. The site is now activating 33 accounts per minute and filing 780 claims per hour, he said.
Hogan did not offer any concrete fixes for the site’s issues but promised the state was working on it.
“It is simply not good enough,” he said. “The people of Maryland deserve better and the buck stops with me.”
Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to Washington Business Journal for more articles?