URL : https://www.canada.ca/en/public-safety-canada/news/2020/05/remarks-by-minister-blair-on-the-ban-of-assault-style-firearms.html
ID : HECA2020050600008

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Remarks by Minister Blair on the ban of assault-style firearms
Ariticle : 
Thank you very much, Prime Minister, and good morning everyone. Before I begin my remarks, I’d like to take the opportunity to extend my sincere condolences to the families of those that were lost in the helicopter crash off the coast of Greece on Wednesday. We will always remember their service and their sacrifice.
 
 I’d like to thank you all for joining us here today for what I believe to be a very significant and, yes, solemn occasion. A few weeks ago, in the midst of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Canada suffered its worst mass shooting in the country’s history: 22 innocent lives were lost over the course of a weekend rampage across beautiful communities throughout Nova Scotia.
 
 Canadians were shocked and they were heartbroken. And as we learned the identities of the victims of these terrible crimes, we were reminded of the tragic impact that gun violence can have on all of our communities, urban and rural, from cost-to-coast-to-coast. Mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, friends and neighbours were taken from us terribly violently and far too soon.
 
 Sadly, gun violence is not a new thing in our society, but it’s made all the more deadly with the proliferation of firearms that are more powerful than ever before. Assault-style firearms, those that were not designed for hunting or sport shooting, have become more and more prevalent in our Canadian retail market. And for as long as these guns have existed, they’ve been capable of inflicting tremendous damage when they fall into the wrong hands.
 
 For example, in 1989, 14 women were murdered at École Polytechnique in a horrific act of deadly misogyny. Seventeen years later, Montreal was shaken yet again with the shooting at Dawson College. In 2014, Moncton was terrorized by a criminal that took the lives of three RCMP officers. And three years ago, in January, in Sainte-Foy, Quebec, a shooter killed six innocent Muslim men while they were at prayer.
 
 Many of us have vivid memories of each of these events. They have become, sadly, a part of our history. These tragic moments when innocent women, worshippers, police officers and Canadians across the country have been killed by evil people wielding powerful guns. 
 
 For decades, chiefs of police, advocacy groups, grieving families and everyday Canadians have been calling for a ban on these types of firearms –guns that we designed for soldiers to kill other soldiers, not for recreational purposes. Guns that belong on a battlefield and not on our streets. Guns that were designed to kill people, intended in their purpose to kill people, and have been used in Canada to kill innocent people.
 
 For decades, Canadians have been calling upon successive governments for reform, for stronger gun control. We have listened, and today we are taking action. Today, as the Prime Minister has said, we are announcing an immediate ban on over 1,500 models of assault-style firearms. Effective immediately these newly banned firearms cannot be legally used, sold or imported in our country. 
 
 As of today, the market for these assault-style weapons in Canada is closed. Enough is enough.
We are ending the proliferation of these weapons and the militarization of our society. From this moment forward, the number of these guns will only decrease in Canada.
 We’ve heard many people express concern about the militarization of their police and this is a direct consequence of the militarization of society.