URL : https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/news/2020/04/government-of-canada-introduces-new-digital-initiatives-to-its-suite-of-virtual-tools-for-covid19.html
ID : HECA2020050100009

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Government of Canada introduces new digital initiatives to its suite of virtual tools for COVID‑19
Ariticle : 
April 30, 2020                                      Ottawa, ON                                         Health Canada
COVID-19 is a global public health challenge that continues to evolve rapidly. The pandemic has greatly changed the daily lives of people around the world, including in Canada, and in response, the Government of Canada is developing digital tools to keep Canadians safe and informed.
Today, the Honourable Patty Hajdu, Minister of Health, together with the Honourable Joyce Murray, Minister of Digital Government and the Honourable Bill Blair, Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness, announced two new additions to the Government of Canada’s suite of virtual tools to support the health and wellness of Canadians during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Get Updates on COVID-19
 is a web-based email service that provides subscribers with critical information related to the pandemic. Developed by Health Canada, the Canadian Digital Service (CDS), and Service Canada, subscribers to the service will get emails directing them to important and authoritative content on the Government of Canada’s COVID-19 website, 
Canada.ca/coronavirus
.
In addition, the 
ArriveCan
 app, developed in collaboration with the Public Health Agency of Canada and the Canada Border Services Agency, has been launched across the country. It allows travellers returning to Canada to input their 14-day isolation or quarantine information quickly, easily and securely upon arrival. The app works by digitizing the information collected under the current paper form that travellers must complete. This required information includes flight or border crossing details, whether travellers are exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19, and whether they have quarantine accommodations.
Get Updates on COVID-19 and ArriveCan will join the government’s suite of digital tools, including the 
Canada COVID-19 mobile app
, which features a symptom tracker, a self-assessment tool, and information on mental health and substance use support through the 
Wellness Together Canada
 portal. The app is free and available on 
Canada.ca/coronavirus
 and through the Apple App Store and Google Play.