URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46826-ministro-da-saude-vai-a-manaus-e-se-reune-com-governador-do-amazonas
ID : MIOH2020050400003

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : Minister of Health will Manaus and Amazonas meets with governor
Ariticle : 
Agenda in the state provides meetings and visits to health services in the capital Manaus on Monday
The Health Minister Nelson Teich, and the executive secretary, General Eduardo Pazuello, landed on Sunday (3) in Manaus for a number of commitments in the state of Amazonas. Earlier in the evening, they met with the governor Wilson Lima and local authorities. "I'm sure the only way of helping society and save the greatest number of people is we all work together in a structured and planned manner," said Teich. It also integrates the delegation the representative of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO / WHO) in Brazil, Socorro Gross.
On Monday (4) are provided for visits to health services such as Rear Hospital Nilton Lins, Delphina Hospital Rinaldi Abdel Azir, Field Hospital Municipal. It is still planned visit to the premises of the Military Command of the Amazon and meeting with the mayor of Manaus, Arthur Virgílio.
Health Minister highlighted some ongoing actions by the Government of Brazil, as the increased supply of diagnostic tests and support for research to develop new technologies for coping with the disease. "We developed a test program that will prioritize some groups obviously the highest risk, such as those of health and safety, for example. We have a methodology. The IBGE will define who we should test, "anticipated.
The state of Amazonas gain from Monday (4) an increase of 267 health professionals, employed by the Ministry of Health to act in confronting the Covid-19. There are 37 doctors, 118 nurses, 57 nursing technicians, 26 physiotherapists, 12 pharmacists and 17 biomedical. These professionals have signed the strategic action "Brazil Stand By Me", which is enrolling and professional empowering, residents and students of healthcare across the country to work in the service to the population before the coronavirus pandemic in support to states and municipalities most in need. The hiring of these professionals is temporary, for six months, and paid according to the salary of each category.
The executive secretary of the Ministry of Health, General Eduardo Pazuello, said the arrival of health care professionals to reinforce the staff working in local health services. "The group will enhance the service to the population. Other contracts may follow in sequence and, therefore, we will meet all the personal demands that are necessary, "said Pazuello.
The Amazonas state governor Wilson Lima, thanked the support he has received from the Federal Government. "We get 3 tons of Personal Protective Equipment, including masks, aprons and alcohol gel. And we have done planning for the next few days to the arrival of professionals who will be important to expand our service capacity, "he said.
Health Agency
The press service
(61) 3315-3580 / 2745 / 2351