URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46822-ministerio-da-saude-contrata-267-profissionais-de-saude-para-atuar-no-amazonas
ID : MIOH2020050300001

Date : 2020-05-02 00:00:00
Title : Ministry of Health hired 267 health professionals to work in the Amazon
Ariticle : 
The first team of registered health professionals in the strategy "Brazil Stand By Me" follows on Sunday to Manaus
The state of Amazonas gain from Monday (4) an increase of 267 health professionals, employed by the Ministry of Health to act in confronting the Covid-19. There are 37 doctors, 118 nurses, 57 nursing technicians, 26 physiotherapists, 12 pharmacists and 17 biomedical. These professionals have signed the strategic action "Brazil Stand By Me", which is enrolling and professional empowering, residents and students of healthcare across the country to work in the service to the population before the coronavirus pandemic in support to states and municipalities most in need. The hiring of these professionals is temporary, for six months, and paid according to the salary of each category.
Of the 267 health professionals who accepted the invitation to be part of the first team support in the care of patients infected by the disease, 236 live in Manaus and other 31 are from other states of the Federation, who will meet in Brasilia and embark tomorrow (3) at night to Manaus (AM). In the second morning professionals will undergo classroom training to face the Covid-19, including talk with psychiatrists of the Brazilian Society of Psychiatry - Regional Amazonas (SBP-AM), Jorge Akel and Cleber Nayef, on health care mental.
These professionals have also held the course
online
Clinical Management Protocols coronavirus (COVID-19), which was made available by e-mail after the registration in the initiative "
The Brazil Stand By Me - Health Professionals
". As defined by the State Department of Health of Amazonas, professionals must be moved to act in the Unified Health System (SUS) from Manaus, Tabatinga, Itacoatiara and Manacaparu.
To support the actions of technical and logistical planning, together with the managers of SUS in the state and the capital Manaus, the Ministry of Health will send a team with professionals, which will be coordinated by the director of the Department of Labor Management in Health Secretary of Labor Management and Health Education (SGTES), Alessandro Vasconcelos Glauco of Angels.
The professionals hired will receive base salary, plus hazard pay, and compatible with the specific workload of their profession. The Ministry of Health will also provide accommodation, food, transportation and health insurance as well as personal protective equipment (PPE) for carrying out the work.
The purpose of the professional registration strategy is to help managers of SUS in actions against the Covid-19. Thus, it is up to local managers the recruitment of these professionals who can
placing the order by clicking here
. At the end of the course
online
training, the professional may signal whether to be part of the actions against the coronavirus, and may be called to work in places where there is need, as the virus circulation dynamics in the country.
To date, there are more than 900,000 professionals from all 14 categories in the area of ​​health registered, of which about 400,000 are willing to act in confronting the Covid-19. The performance can be provided health facilities to the emergency room and ICU beds services.
To participate in the initiative professionals may not have current link employment with the direct or indirect public administration, since it is a reinforcement of the SUS, and not be among the risk groups for coronavirus, ie be of 60 years or have pre-existing conditions.
Besides the strategy "Brazil Stand By Me", another form of health professionals act to prevent and combat the coronavirus is integrating, as volunteers, the National Strength SUS. In this case, the Health Ministry had sent 29 professional volunteers to temporarily strengthen the care in health facilities in the state of Amazonas. There were 8 doctors, 19 nurses and two therapists, who have also undergone training offered by the Ministry of Health.
Click here to access the most frequently asked questions about the program The Brazil by Me
List of professionals who will be part of the 1st strategy support team "Brazil Stand By Me"
By Amanda Costa Health Agency

The press service
(61) 3315-3580 / 2745 / 2351