URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46819-saude-lanca-acoes-de-cuidado-aos-idosos-em-situacao-de-vulnerabilidade
ID : MIOH2020050100002

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Launches health care actions for the elderly in vulnerable situations
Ariticle : 
Goal is to increase access and care to the elderly population in extreme vulnerability during pandemic coronavirus
The Ministry of Health, in partnership with the Ministry of Women, Family and Human Rights, launched on Thursday (30/04), the National Contingency Plan for the care Older Persons in Situations of Extreme Social Vulnerability. The initiative will serve primarily the elderly linked to long-stay institutions for the Elderly (ILPI) and beneficiaries of social programs. Among the actions in the Plan are the active search carried out by health teams of the Family, the remote service by TeleSUS channels, testing of symptomatic and, if necessary, hospitalization in isolation is impossible situations. The investment for the initiative amounts to R $ 136.4 million, the result of company donations Valley and banks pool.
"This is a combined action of the Ministry of Health with the municipalities. All we have done is aimed not only to address the crisis of COVID-19. We always work with the idea that we can leave from the changes we are making, which is a legacy to society, so that we have a health system better after this is all over, "said the Health Minister Nelson Teich.
The actions will be developed in the context of Primary Health Care, responsible for risk assessment and coordination of care in identifying signs and symptoms, isolation of promotion and identification of clinical severity. Testing will be held preferably in the elderly experiencing signs and symptoms consistent with flu-like illness, regardless of their institutional affiliation. All municipalities receive proportional tests to the public target, in this case, the old people who present flu-like symptoms.
The measure aims to meet the elderly people living in ILPIs, especially those linked to the Unified Social Assistance System (ITS) and members of the Single Registry of Social Assistance (CadÚnico), beneficiaries of the Bolsa Família Program (PBF) and the Continuous Cash Benefit ( BPC), who are in vulnerable situations, arising from old age, the increased presence of comorbidities, the sharing of collective environments and dependence to perform daily activities.
To identify these elderly people in extremely vulnerable enrolled in the Single Registry, the Ministries of Health and Citizenship integrate the databases to cross-check the health teams of the Family, responsible for monitoring these seniors.
Currently, in Brazil, there are approximately 78,200 seniors linked to host and ILPI institutions, and about 31 720 employees, including carers and other professionals. Institutionalized people have both the individual risk, due to the more aggressive COVID-19 among this group, as the consequent exposure of living in ILPI, in which they often deal with collective spaces and agglomerations in the use of public areas.
By Nicole Beraldo, Health Agency

The press service
(61) 3315-3580 / 2351 / 2745
 