URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46820-ministerio-da-saude-convida-profissionais-para-reforcarem-atendimento-no-amazonas
ID : MIOH2020050100004

Date : 2020-04-30 00:00:00
Title : Ministry of Health invites professionals to strengthen care in the Amazon
Ariticle : 
Hiring is paid and temporary. Health professionals also need housing, food, transportation and health insurance as well as personal protective equipment (PPE)
The Ministry of Health invites health professionals across the country to strengthen the fight against COVID-19 in the state of Amazonas. The hiring of these professionals is temporary, for six months, and paid according to the salary of each category. The initiative is part of the strategic action "Brazil Stand by Me" which is enrolling and empowering professionals, residents and students in the health field in order to assist states and municipalities in actions against the coronavirus.
Professionals interested in acting specifically in the Amazon region should sign up
Neste link
. They will work in the cities Manaus, Tabatinga, Itacoatiara or Manacaparu. They may only be hired those who have completed the online course Clinical Management Protocols coronavirus (COVID-19), which was made available by e-mail after the registration in the initiative "
The Brazil Stand By Me - Health Professionals
". To Manaus, for example, they were asked 581 professionals. The greatest need of the state's doctors.
Read too:
The Ministry of Health reinforces that the confirmation of availability does not guarantee the effective recruitment, but rather the participation of the recruitment process to act in confronting the COVID-19 in the state of Amazonas. They will be prioritized issues as place of residence, professional profile compatible with the needs of local managers and completion of the registration in the Strategic Action "Brazil Stand By Me."
"We have created a large bank national register of professionals from 14 categories of health. As of today, we already have 902 217 professionals of all categories registered, of whom 396,418 are willing to serve on the coping COVID-19. We are offering this database to all states in accordance with the request of the desired professional, "said Secretary of Labor Management and Health Education, Mayra Pinheiro.
The professionals hired will receive base salary, plus hazard pay, and compatible with the specific workload of their profession. The Ministry of Health will also provide accommodation, food, transportation and health insurance as well as personal protective equipment (PPE) for carrying out the work.
Click to view frequently asked questions about Brazil by Me Program
The purpose of the register of professionals is to help managers of the Unified Health System (SUS) in actions against the COVID-19. Thus, it is up to local managers the recruitment of these professionals who can
placing the order by clicking here
. At the end of the online training course, the professional may signal whether to be part of the actions against the coronavirus, and may be called to work in places where there is need, as the virus circulation dynamics in the country.
By Tinna Oliveira, Health Agency
The press service
(61) 3315-3580 / 2351