URL : https://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46803-cadastro-para-bonificacao-de-residentes-sera-reaberto
ID : MIOH2020042900003

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Register for bonus residents will be reopened
Ariticle : 
Education Institutions and Health residents need to register to receive bonus. About 52,000 residents were registered
Will be reopened, on Tuesday (28/04), the form for the registration of active residents in health care that can receive 20% bonus on the amount of the stipend paid to professionals. Housing Commissions of the institutions are required to fill out the form available in FormSUS informing residents that are actually in effect until 23:59 of the 1st of May. Altogether, there have been registered about 52,000 residents. The FormSUS will be available for shipment documentation, as of 12pm Tuesday (28).
The initiative is part of the strategic action. "Brazil Stand By Me - Residents in Health", aimed at health professionals who are enrolled in medical residency programs and Residence in Health Professional Area Validation of records authorizing the grant of bonus 20% of the scholarship amount paid to residents as an incentive to face the COVID-19. The Health Ministry released the list of institutions that conducted the registration of residents and had their validated data. For those who did not have the validation, the institutions should follow the guidelines sent by email to correct the information.
Access here the list of institutions with validated data
The registration of residents is a coordinator of the responsibility of residence fees. Failure to send the data (spreadsheet and electronic form SUS - FormSUS) directly impacts the bonus, because you can not make the payment.
The bonus in the amount of R $ 667 shall be paid to residents of all 14 categories of health areas (medicine, nursing, biology, speech therapy, physical therapy and occupational therapy, pharmacy, veterinary medicine, physical education, nutrition, dentistry, biomedical , psychology, social and technical service in radiology).
The bonus must be paid from May and is expected initially to last for six months. Currently, residents receive a scholarship in the ditch of R $ 3.3000. The amount of the bonus will be the same for all categories of health. It is estimated that about 80,000 residents are covered.
In addition, the Ministry of Health is also enrolling health professionals, including residents, through the Strategic Action "Brazil Stand By Me - Health Professionals", which will operate throughout the country to combat coronaviruses. To date, the Ministry of Health registered about 895 thousand registered professionals from 14 categories of health areas that may assist managers of the Unified Health System (SUS) in coping shares Covid-19.
The residence bags of payments financed by the National Program to Support Training of Medical Specialists in Strategic Areas (Pro-Residence Medical) - Interministerial MEC / MS No. 1001 of October 22, 2009 - and the National Scholarship Program for Residential multidisciplinary and Health Business - Interministerial MEC / MS No. 1077 of November 12, 2009 - have occurred normally, except for those whose data have been incorrectly routed by the resident or by educational institutions itself.
Once you identify the inconsistency of information, the Ministry sends notification to the resident requesting the regularization of data. Payment of overdue bags is occurring as the entries are corrected, with the immediate inclusion of the resident on the payroll to receive the corresponding values. Recalling that these payments refer to loans that must take place in April. There is no residence late for the payment of previous months.
By Natalia Pinheiro, the NUCOM / SGTES
Service to the press:
61) 3315.3580