URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46814-ministro-da-saude-participa-de-videoconferencia-com-senadores
ID : MIOH2020043000002

Date : 2020-04-29 00:00:00
Title : Health Minister takes part in video conference with Senators
Ariticle : 
Nelson Teich explained the actions taken to confront the coronavirus. The public hearing was transmitted over the Internet and with the participation of parliamentarians from all states
The Health Minister Nelson Teich, participated in video conference with senators, on Wednesday (29) on the actions undertaken by the Government of Brazil to support the states and municipalities in addressing the coronavirus (COVID-19). "This is a moment Brazil, which demand joint action of the Federal Government, states, municipalities, deputies and senators. I've never seen such a moment that required union leaders in facing a common problem. This is a historic moment of unity of the country, "said Teich to start his speech. The event was broadcast over the Internet and with the participation of representatives of all states.
Enter here the full presentation
After distribution of R $ 5 billion for states and municipalities could restructure their health networks, the health minister said that now in a our stage of the disease in the country, give priority to states with the highest number of cases and, therefore, greater need for expansion of the population to the service structure. "In possession of updated information from states and municipalities, noting the different behavior patterns of disease by region and pattern of evolution of the epidemic in each location, we decided that our actions should be guided by non-linear distribution of inputs and means, which sets the weight distribution of resources and also the priority in aid to states and municipalities from the critical situation experienced by the federal entity, "he said.
Teich also described the role of the Ministry of Health as a "national power support, calibrating efforts and modulating the actions. The health minister also pointed out that, since he took the folder, is dedicated to improving the dynamics of acquisitions, to expand the partnership with the private sector, accelerate the supply of inputs and services and strengthen, more and more, our relationship with states and municipalities, "he said.
Regarding the distribution of respirators, equipment used in the treatment of critically ill patients with difficulty breathing, the Minister informed that the federal government faces the challenge in the availability of equipment. "Despite the great effort we have with the domestic industry, the delivery schedule of such equipment meets partly our needs. So we are looking for alternatives, "he said.
The Ministry of Health had a purchase 15,000 respirators produced in China that had to be canceled because the supplier failed to deliver the devices. Thus, over three months, a network of Brazilian companies will help meet the needs of the Health System, with 14,100 mechanical ventilators. From deliveries by manufacturers, the Ministry of Health distributed 272 respirators and other 185 will be delivered this week by Brazilian companies.
The health minister also talked about social isolation, the use of technology in combating the disease, such as telemedicine, development of transmission and reporting of cases. Each senator had five minutes to contextualize their views and prepare the questions, answered by the minister at the same time, each block of three questions. The public hearing was led by Senate President, Senator David Alcolumbre.
The Health Minister Nelson Teich says that social isolation is a tool that should be used in the best possible way to combat coronaviruses, considering the evolution of the disease within each location. "Isolation is a tool, which can be good or misused. We can not have a simplistic answer to a complex problem for such a heterogeneous country like Brazil. Staying home will be better for some people and regions, but not all, "explained Teich.
To try to help states and municipalities to make better decisions, according to the population and every local need, the Ministry of Health is working on building a guideline for the current context. "Each state will be able to use this guide to their own reality. Let's put the variables and each state will see how it fits and can use to guide their actions, "he said.
One way to understand what the best model to follow and more information, the Ministry of Health will also work with international research. "Also, we will get in touch with countries that have been most successful to have details of what was done in these places," he said.
The Ministry of Health has been working daily with focus and observation of all states and municipalities, closely following the progress of cases and deaths everywhere to assist in better decision-making in each case. "We will do whatever has to be done to get out of this crisis as quickly and with the least possible death," said Health Minister Nelson Teich.
Regarding the state of Amazonas, which has one of the highest numbers of cases and deaths, proportionately, the Health Minister said that to help the state, the Ministry of Health has sent R $ 68.7 million for reinforcement of hospital activities and services Attention Primary geared exclusively to fighting the coronavirus, and 13,928 RT-PCR tests and 46,560 rapid tests. The state also has received 1.2 million personal protective equipment, such as alcohol gel, apron, gloves, N95 masks, surgical masks, goggles, shoes and caps. The state also received 55 respirators to assist in the most severe cases of the disease.
"Tomorrow (30) takes off a plane carrying more respirators, EPIS and other materials that we could join. This is the first strategic action and is being directed to Manaus, we are going to get these direct equipment on production lines. There is no advantage of a state or city have priority over others, this is represented by the total situation of calamity that each region is living. No region is ceasing to be observed or failing to receive all that was combined, "said the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Health, General Eduardo Pazuello.
Medical care at a distance also gained national relevance in actions to combat the coronavirus and other diseases. Now the Brazilian population does not have to leave home to receive diagnosis and guidance on signs and symptoms of the disease. With the services of TeleSUS, by phone, calling the Health Hotline 136; by Chatbot, available on the website of Ministry of Health, or by downloading the coronavirus SUS application for free, anyone can ask questions and to consult with a health professional. So far, 5.7 million people have sought the TeleSUS services.
"Telemedicine will be useful and will allow us to develop future things. It's a tool. Brings people together, allows distance contact and social interaction. However, we will have to review how best to use this tool. This is already being worked on, "said Health Minister Nelson Teich.
By Gustavo Frasão, Health Agency

The press service

(61) 3315- 3580 / 3533