URL : http://outbreaknewstoday.com/russia-covid-19-cases-top-93k-half-in-moscow-coronavirus-guidelines-updated-99803/
ID : OBNT2020042900001

Date : 2020-04-28 00:00:00
Title : Russia COVID-19: Cases top 93K, Half in Moscow; Coronavirus guidelines updated
Ariticle : 
By NewsDesk  
@infectiousdiseasenews
Country statistics
The Russia Ministry of Health reported an additional 6,411 coronavirus disease, or COVID-19 cases today, bringing the country total to 93,558 recorded in 85 regions of the Russian Federation, currently the 8th most of any country. 867 deaths have been reported nationwide.
The number of cases in the city of Moscow (48426) and the Moscow region (10231) top the list of most cases in the country. This is followed by St. Petersburg (3436), Nizhny Novgorod Region (1663) and The Republic of Dagestan (1147).
According to the Rospotrebnadzor, over the entire period, more than 3.13 million laboratory tests were conducted, including 119,800 over the past day.
Favipiravir clinical trials
The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and the ChemRar group of companies have launched clinical trials of Favipiravir, which could be effective in treating the coronavirus COVID-19, a joint statement by the RDIF and ChemRar said.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, the sovereign fund of the Russian Federation, and the ChemRar group of companies announce the start of a multicenter, randomized, open, comparative clinical trial of the drug Favipiravir in patients hospitalized with COVID-19. The studies will be held in 17 centers across Russia with the participation of 330 patients with confirmed coronavirus infection, “the report said.
The first patients began to receive therapy at three medical centers in Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod and Smolensk. As part of a clinical study, the effectiveness and safety of Favipiravir will be studied, and the optimal dosage regimen for patients will be selected.
“We hope that the successful completion of studies and the proven effectiveness of Favipiravir therapy will bring victory over the virus and the resumption of economic activity closer. The industrial production of the drug by our joint venture with the HimRar group will satisfy the demand of both the Russian and export markets,” said the Director General RDIF Kirill Dmitriev, whose words are given in the message.
Updated guidelines for coronavirus
The Russian Ministry of Health has released 
version 6 of the guidelines
 for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of new coronavirus infection COVID-19. The recommendations were finalized in accordance with the decisions of the interdisciplinary consultation, which was attended by the main freelance specialists of the Ministry of Health of Russia, representatives of federal remote resuscitation and counseling centers, leading federal and regional clinics, leading Russian experts – those who provide daily assistance to patients with coronavirus infection.
The updated version focuses on proactive anti-inflammatory therapy to prevent severe disease and anticoagulant therapy, which is necessary to prevent the development of dangerous complications such as thrombosis and thromboembolism.
Features of the treatment of patients at risk are described, including patients with diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension, heart failure. Expanded and supplemented sections on instrumental and laboratory diagnosis of coronavirus infection.
 
 
 