URL : http://outbreaknewstoday.com/indonesia-covid-19-case-counts-and-deaths-president-widodos-six-directives-57140/
ID : OBNT2020050500001

Date : 2020-05-04 00:00:00
Title : Indonesia COVID-19: Case counts and deaths, President Widodo’s six directives
Ariticle : 
By NewsDesk  
@infectiousdiseasenews
As of May 4, the Indonesia Ministry of Health has reported 11,587 COVID-19 cases, including 864 deaths.
On Sunday, the country’s COVID-19 handling spokesman, Achmad Yurianto stated that since the WHO declared the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government responded quickly by issuing the policies of working from home, learning from home, worship at home and wearing masks. This was followed by the establishment of the COVID-19 pandemic as a Non-Natural National Disaster.
“This means that the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic must be carried out in a guided manner by the government through the Task Force for the Acceleration of COVID-19 Handling at both the central and regional levels,” Yurianto said.
Because the COVID-19 pandemic has a multidimensional impact. Therefore, collaboration from all sectors is needed to unite, work hand in hand and work together to prevent efforts to break the chain of transmission and spread of COVID-19.
For this reason, the Task Force for the Acceleration of Handling COVID-19 in the work refers to the six directives of President Joko Widodo.
First, sample testing must be carried out more massively and followed by strict isolation. The Ministry of Health, BUMN, TNI and Polri have synergized to increase the number of sample testing labs & increase the examination capacity, so that the target of 10,000 samples / day can be achieved.
Secondly, medical consultation facilities and infrastructure have been widely opened with telemedicine. This service can be used as a means to keep us healthy, get correct information and reduce the risk of visiting the hospital.
Subscribe to Outbreak News TV on YouTube
Got Smallpox? merchandise
Third, the government carries out effective communication with transparent explanations to the public both regarding planned activities, implementation of activities, results of activities, data, etc.
Fourth, law enforcement with the help of the state apparatus so that people have compliance and discipline to remain at home in order to reduce the distribution and close contact.
Fifth, the Government ensures the flow of logistics relating to community needs runs smoothly both from the center to the regions and from the logistics warehouse to the community.
Sixth, the government is fully committed to providing targeted economic stimulus packages as part of the social safety net so that all parties can focus on breaking the chain of COVID-19 transmission.
“COVID-19 can only be prevented by strong discipline and a spirit of mutual cooperation by being carried out together and continuously, not to be interrupted, Indonesian people can work, study and worship at home, solidarity actions to help others,” he said.