URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1146702.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300052

Date : 2020-05-03 16:16:00
Title : Infectiousness of Changyang patients cannot be completely ruled out, but the possibility is very small
Ariticle : 
Original title: Infectiousness of Changyang patients cannot be completely ruled out, but the possibility is very small
This afternoon, the State Council Joint Defense and Joint Control Mechanism held a press conference to invite experts from the West China Hospital of Sichuan University, the First Hospital of Jilin University, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, and the Affiliated Medical Team of the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi&#39;an Jiaotong University to answer media questions.
Not long ago, there were media reports that a small number of patients with new coronary pneumonia in Wuhan had a positive nucleic acid test for a long time. How should these patients be treated?
At the meeting, Liang Zongan, director of the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, introduced that at present, most Changyang patients have detected protective IgG antibodies. Infection of family members or other close contacts.
Regarding Changyang, there are generally several issues to be noted:
First, his infectivity cannot be completely ruled out, but as a source of infection, the possibility of infection is very small. This issue needs further study. Everyone knows that the new coronavirus has only a few months to come out, and its biological characteristics need further study.
Second, most of the current nucleic acid testing of Changyang patients has turned negative, and those who have not turned negative are still isolated at a fixed point, so in general, because the risk of Changyang retransmission is relatively low.
Third, do these patients need further treatment? Because the vast majority of patients in Changyang are asymptomatic, if he does not have other basic diseases, he does not need treatment. However, because his nucleic acid test is still positive, from this perspective, we still have to do the necessary isolation observation.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming