URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/s/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9587688.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300012

Date : 2020-05-03 00:07:00
Title : too hot! More and more experts take masks on the road: these 3 situations must still be worn
Ariticle : 
Original title: It&#39;s too hot! More and more experts take masks on the road: these 3 situations must still be worn
Reporters visited many popular scenic spots and shopping malls in Chengdu on May 2 and found that under the high temperature of 30 ℃, many tourists took off their masks, some even put the masks directly in their pockets, and they were not prepared to wear masks at all. As the temperature rises, can the mask be removed?
Luan Rongsheng, an epidemiology professor at the West China School of Public Health of Sichuan University and a deputy head of the epidemic prevention and control group of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Outbreak Leading Group, responded to this.
According to the Chengdu Meteorological Observatory, during the five-day holiday on May 1st, Chengdu is dominated by cloudy to sunny weather. The temperature is high and fluctuates slightly, staying above 30 ℃, of which the maximum temperature on May 3 is expected to be 33 ℃. When the temperature is high, wearing a mask will feel uncomfortable. Are you wearing masks for citizens and tourists on May 1st?
At 9:30 in the morning, the reporter came to Kuanzhai Alley. When entering the scenic area, all tourists wear masks as required, but after entering the scenic area, many tourists took off the masks. The reporter initially estimated that about one-third of tourists did not wear masks as required. Among them, Kuan Alley is near Xiatongren Road. Because there are many snack bars, tourists stop in front of the shop to buy snacks. There are fewer people wearing masks in this area.
Later, the reporter visited Taikoo Li, IFS and other places and found that perhaps the temperature gradually increased and more citizens and tourists did not wear masks. But in the mall, most citizens still consciously put on masks.
&quot;As long as the scenic spot is not in a state of standing shoulder to shoulder, citizens and tourists can wear no masks.&quot; Luan Rongsheng, deputy leader of the epidemic prevention and control group of the leading group of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Outbreak Group at the Sichuan University West China School of Public Health and the Provincial Health Commission, told reporters. According to Luan Rongsheng, indoors are relatively closed and poorly ventilated, and masks can be worn at intervals of more than 2 meters. And like the unit meeting, you are more familiar with each other, you can also not wear a mask. Ordinary people travel, and you can still see everyone wearing masks on the street. In fact, you can no longer wear them when you travel.
However, Luan Rongsheng suggested: meet the following three characteristics, be sure to wear a mask. First, it must be worn in confined spaces, such as subways, trains, etc .; second, it should be worn in crowded areas, hospitals, schools, etc .; third, close contact, people who need to be in close contact with people for a long time, need to wear mask .
Chengdu Business Daily-Red Star News reporter Yan Dan Yan Yuheng
Editor in charge: Zhu Jiabei