URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9423942.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200001

Date : 2020-05-01 20:15:00
Title : A large number of US media questioned that the real data of the US epidemic has broken the ceiling
Ariticle : 
Original title: A large number of US media questioned that the real data of the US epidemic situation has broken the ceiling
According to real-time statistics from Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of 8:32 on May 1, Beijing time, there were more than 1.06 million confirmed cases in the United States and more than 63,000 deaths.
However, many US media questioned this data.
The Governor of Chang&#39;an Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noticed that after investigations by major media in the United States, the actual death figures of the new coronary pneumonia in the country differed greatly from official statistics, and may even have been several times official announcements.
The New York Times report on April 28 reviewed the data released by the US Centers for Disease Control and found that the death pattern caused by the new coronavirus is different from that in recent years. At present, the death tolls in New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland and Colorado are much higher than normal levels in previous years.
In the epicenter of the epidemic in New York, the death toll was more than three times the normal level; in New Jersey, the current death toll is also 172% of the normal level.
The American Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) survey pointed out that the actual death count of new coronary pneumonia may be &quot;dramatically&quot; higher than the current official statistics.
The report gives the basis that the US Centers for Disease Control has conducted post-mortem analysis of the H1N1 influenza virus outbreaks in the United States in 2009 and 2010, and concluded that the real data is likely to be 15 times higher than official statistics.
Daniel Weinberger, an epidemiologist at the Yale School of Public Health, told the ABC that current death statistics “may be tens of thousands lower than the actual number”, and may even be “about twice the number of deaths that have been counted”.
In other words, the actual number of deaths caused by new coronary pneumonia in the United States may have exceeded 100,000.
This is not the first time experts have questioned the authenticity of official US data.
On April 17, Stanford University published an antibody test conducted in Santa Clara County, California, which showed that the actual number of people infected with the new coronavirus far exceeded official data, which may be 55 times higher.
On April 20, a joint test conducted by the University of Southern California and the Los Angeles Public Health Department produced similar results: Los Angeles County may carry between 221,000 and 442,000 anti-coronavirus antibodies, which is 28 to 55 times the official number of diagnoses .
The reason for the untrue U.S. official data is, on the one hand, underreporting. The ABC pointed out that the number of deaths due to new coronary pneumonia or related complications in American nursing homes has long been tens of thousands. The data is included in the total, and it is currently &quot;unclear when the United States will begin to include these data in national death statistics.&quot;
On the other hand, there are even cases of official concealment in the US
&quot;Capitol Hill&quot; pointed out that because the death statistics of medical workers are 10% higher than the official, Florida recently withheld the state&#39;s new coronary pneumonia death data for more than a week.
Stephen Nielsen, chairman of the State Medical Examination Board, said the local health department had intervened and told him that the official plan was to remove the cause of death and case description from the death data.
At the same time, a recent poll released by the Gallup Company of the United States shows that if symptoms of new coronavirus infection occur, 14% of American adults will give up treatment because they cannot afford medical expenses.
According to this poll, one in seven American adults said that if they or their family members show symptoms of new coronavirus infection, they will be unable to pay for medical expenses because of the inability to pay for it; % Of adults will still give up treatment.
This supports the lack of credibility of the official US data from one aspect.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) previously reported that the latest autopsy report released by Los Angeles County showed that the earliest death of new coronary pneumonia occurred on February 6. This is three weeks ahead of the time of the first death case previously announced by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which directly disrupted the official US epidemic timeline.
With the disruption of the official U.S. epidemic timeline, the timing of the outbreak of the new U.S. crown epidemic has become a mystery, and its impact may far exceed public expectations.
According to the Canadian National Post, the latest data from the four most populous provinces in Canada show that the new Canadian pneumonitis epidemic was not caused by Chinese imports, but from the United States.
Reference materials: CCTV news client, overseas network, observer network, etc.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming