URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9367521.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100028

Date : 2020-05-01 11:50:00
Title : Trump said that Bill Gates is the best in the world for virus detection in the United States: Asian countries have much higher detection capabilities than the United States
Ariticle : 
Original title: Trump said that the United States has the best virus detection in the world, Bill Gates: Asian countries have much higher detection capabilities than the United States
[Global Network Reporter Zhang Xiaoya] &quot;Bill Gates: Asia (country) detection capabilities and (virus) contact tracking capabilities are much higher than the United States.&quot; April 30, local time, CNN Online interview with Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft Corporation and Co-Chairman of the Gates Foundation, made this report.
CNN said that Gates said in an interview that the United States has not reached the level of many Asian countries that have been &quot;fighting&quot; with the new crown epidemic for several months.
Gates said in the interview: &quot;It is important to say that in Asia (countries), the quality (ability) of their detection and tracking of (virus) contacts is much higher than in the United States.
Gates continued, &quot;The United States will not prioritize who will be tested, and the United States will not ensure that you get the results within 24 hours. We have not yet authorized an information point or home test, which is still a management issue. So , Our test data should not be used for comparison, rich people can detect many times, poor people may not be detected. Our system can not set (detect) prioritization, so we can not accurately understand Things that happened&quot; .
Gates&#39; words seem to &quot;slap&quot; US President Trump.
On April 28, local time, according to the statistics of Johns Hopkins University in the United States, the cumulative number of new coronavirus infections in the United States has exceeded 1 million. Soon afterwards, Trump tweeted on social media that all this &quot;attributes&quot; to US virus testing did better than other countries.
&quot;The only reason the United States reports 1 million cases of new coronavirus infections is that our (virus) detection (work) is much better than any other country in the world. Other countries are far behind us in detection, so fewer cases occur Much more! &quot;Trump tweeted at the time.
According to real-time statistical data from Johns Hopkins University, as of 10:32 on May 1, Beijing time, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia in the United States was 1069664, and the cumulative number of deaths was 62996.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu