URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9413074.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100061

Date : 2020-05-01 18:17:00
Title : The U.S. epidemic hasn&#39;t converged and is eager to resume work. Experts worry about 300,000 deaths if there are no extraordinary measures
Ariticle : 
Original title: The U.S. epidemic is in a hurry to resume work, and experts worry that 300,000 people will die without extraordinary measures
On April 30th, local time in the United States, the &quot;maintaining social distance&quot; guidelines issued by the Trump administration will expire. After several weeks of lockout and social alienation, the US states have begun to take measures to relax the blockade. As of April 30, 13 states have been partially opened, and another 7 states have announced opening dates. Obviously, the US economy can no longer stop.
&quot;The new coronavirus is too scary, it is getting closer to the level of the Spanish flu in 1918-1919. The number of deaths in New York during the two flu seasons is about 30,000, but less than two months 15,000 New Yorkers have died of the new coronavirus A warning, everyone must attach great importance to the new coronavirus. Any underestimation will make a fatal and dangerous mistake. &quot;Dr. Tom Frieden, former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), at a media seminar held recently The warning says.
This grim situation has led many public health experts to believe that the policy of maintaining social distance needs to continue into the summer, because hasty resumption of work may cause the epidemic to rebound. As of April 30, there have been more than 1.09 million cases of new coronavirus infection in the United States, accounting for one-third of the world&#39;s confirmed cases, and the death toll exceeded 60,000. The domestic epidemic in the United States has not shown signs of being effectively controlled.
The epidemic is not yet stable, but economic pressure is increasing. 26 million people in the United States have registered to seek unemployment protection, and the unemployment rate may reach 16% in April. The initial value of US GDP released on April 29 showed that it fell by 4.8% in the first quarter. Barclays Bank expects the US economy to shrink by 6.4% in 2020.
Many states therefore chose to loosen the economy as soon as possible, and even the state of California, where the epidemic is more severe, also tried to deregulate. Mississippi, Tennessee, and Colorado will allow some business sites to resume operations at the end of April and return some employees to their jobs. At the same time, some companies in Georgia, Oklahoma, Alaska, Texas and South Carolina have resumed work while still implementing social alienation policies. Iowa and Nebraska labor department officials even said that employees who refused to return to work after receiving the notice would not be eligible for unemployment benefits in view of the reopening of the enterprise.
The instability of the epidemic makes the resumption of economic activities like walking a tightrope. According to recent polls, the American people are not mentally prepared for resuming production. 70% of the respondents believe that even if the economy is damaged in the short term, it is necessary to slow down the spread of the new corona virus by staying home and maintaining social distance. 63% of the respondents are worried that if the work is resumed too quickly, the epidemic will deteriorate.
Detection antibody or helpless recovery
How to resume economic activities and ensure that the epidemic does not rebound? Fei Heping put forward the &quot;Box It In&quot; strategy, which is to create a closed loop to reduce the possibility of an outbreak of secondary infections, and to open more space while the virus is in the box to ensure safe resumption. In his view, if we do not shut the virus into the box, &quot;we can only shut ourselves down at home.&quot;
It takes three steps to put the elephant in the refrigerator and four steps to put the virus in the box. They are indispensable, otherwise the virus will escape the box. The first step in packing into the box is to expand the scale of detection. Without fast, wide-reaching and targeted detection, the virus will open up new lines of attack, create new clustered infections, spread death cases, and increase economic chaos.
Insufficient detection capabilities have been a major concern for US companies to resume work. Trump said in March that anyone who wants to do testing can do the testing, but this promise has not been fulfilled. Some states&#39; attempts to resume some business activities were welcomed by business owners, but they also attracted opposition because local residents are concerned about the current lack of virus detection capabilities.
As of early April, there were less than 150,000 people in the United States who were tested daily, and those who needed to be tested had to wait in line for many days before testing. Fei Heping pointed out that the minimum number of tests required per day depends on the stage and number of outbreaks, the hospitalization rate, the number of confirmed cases and close contacts, and the frequency and scope of testing in nursing homes and hospitals. Compared with mid-April, only meeting the highest priority testing needs will increase the testing capacity by a factor of three, while a larger range of tests may increase the demand by a factor of 30 or more.
In order to improve detection capabilities, the US government plans to distribute detection equipment to the United States to conduct virus detection on at least 2% of residents. To achieve this scale of testing, the industrial chain of each link of the testing system must be improved. &quot;The federal government needs to assess each level of the supply chain to ensure its soundness. If any link is weak, it will cause delays. To establish a supply chain for each link required for virus detection, not only the required materials but also the information system, such detection The results can be quickly passed on to medical service providers and the public health system. &quot;Fei Heping said.
A research report released by Harvard University in mid-April pointed out that the United States needs to increase its detection capacity to 5 million person-times per day in early June and to 20 million person-days per day by the end of July in order to talk about reopening the economy. Although President Trump himself boasted that Haikou said that he would soon reach the goal of 5 million daily inspections, Brett Giroir, assistant secretary of the US Department of Health who is in charge of virus detection, told the media on April 29 It is &quot;impossible&quot; to achieve this test goal. All the United States can do is to reach 8 million tests in May.
It will take weeks or even months for the United States to carry out a sufficient number of tests, and we cannot just wait and improve the testing capabilities. In Fei Heping ’s words, “If we only focus on detection, we ca n’t slide to where the puck is going (We are not skating to where the puck is going to be. The hockey coach ’s famous saying means appearing where it should appear),” To slide to where the ball appears, it is necessary to do four steps to pack the virus into the box. &quot;
At the same time, the United States is also expanding the scale of antibody testing. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved some antibody tests for emergency use, but it has not been verified. So far, the severely affected New York State has conducted 7,500 tests, and 14.9% of the population in the state have tested positive for new coronavirus antibodies, which is equivalent to one out of every seven people with antibodies. This proportion is higher in New York City, and every five people One of them has antibodies.
Serum testing can identify whether a person is or has been infected with new coronavirus. People who test positive for antibodies but have negative tests for viral nucleic acids may have certain immunity. If they are found to be protected from repeated infections, they can return to work faster than others. Some countries therefore plan to issue &quot;immunization cards&quot; to those who have recovered from the new coronavirus infection, allowing them to travel, because these people already have antibodies and will not be infected again. However, the WHO reminds that there is no evidence that once a new coronavirus infection can bring immunity, the detection of new coronavirus antibody needs further confirmation of its accuracy and reliability.
Can large-scale antibody testing help resume work? Fei Heping explained to the Caijing reporter that the detection of antibodies is to find past or present infections, not the detection of the virus itself, which indicates whether the individual is potentially infectious. Serum testing has two values. One is to assess the spread of the virus in the community, to see how widespread it is, and to track the overall situation over time. The second is to indicate whether the individual has viral antibodies, which may represent a certain degree of immunity. &quot;We don&#39;t know whether these people can be free from reinfection, nor do they know that their immunity can remain for months or years. We hope it is good, it may be good, but we don&#39;t know yet.
Discovery, quarantine and tracking are indispensable
Information from various parties shows that there are many things to be done while the United States is building its detection capabilities, for example, to slow down infections in hospitals and nursing homes. This is the second step of the &quot;pack the virus into the box&quot; strategy.
According to data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 10,000 medical personnel across the United States were infected two months before the outbreak of the New Crown Outbreak. In some states, infected health care workers even accounted for 11% of the total number of cases in the same period. Such a figure is completely unacceptable to Fei Heping. It is necessary to provide adequate medical protective equipment to protect the frontline medical staff. A policy of rapid detection and effective isolation of all infected persons must be adopted to prevent the spread in the hospital.
The same is true of nursing homes, with 1.5 million residents in 15,000 nursing homes. As of mid-April, 2,500 nursing homes reported new cases of coronary artery pneumonia, and more than 3,800 staff members and residents died. This number is still increasing rapidly. In some areas, nursing homes account for almost half of deaths. &quot;Unless special measures are taken, every nursing home in the United States may have an outbreak, which may eventually result in the death of 300,000 or more people.&quot; Fei Heping warned.
The US Centers for Disease Control has established a list of countermeasures for nursing homes. According to the recommendations, nursing homes should maintain a social distance, pay close attention to the physical condition of residents, and restrict the access of visitors and non-essential personnel. Train employees to prevent infections, review their performance, regularly check whether workers and residents are sick, and ensure that workers have paid leave, so that they can be sick at home instead of spreading the virus to work.
Detection and isolation can help to find patients in time. If you want to run in front of the new corona virus, you need to track close contacts and isolate them in time. US states are building a tracker team to try to track each close contact and properly isolate it to avoid Turning a case into a clustered infection and a clustered infection into a pandemic infection are the third and fourth steps of the &quot;pack the virus in a box&quot; strategy. If it works well, new cases will only be quarantined Appears among close contacts.
According to National Association of County (City) Health Officials (NACCHO) estimates, during the H1N1 influenza outbreak, 30 followers are needed for every 100,000 people. In non-emergency situations, 15 followers are required for every 100,000 people. The National Public Radio conducted a survey of all states in the United States on the number and demand of trackers. Among them, 41 states plus Washington DC have a total of about 7602 trackers, and plans to increase to 36587.
Compared with some successful cases, there is still a gap in the size of the US tracker team. Fei Heping cited China as a success story in tracking close contacts. Nationwide, China has tracked more than 720,000 close contacts. At the peak of the Wuhan epidemic, there were more than 1,800 teams of trackers, each with at least 5 people, tracking thousands of close contacts every day, and one in about 1,000 residents.
Tracking close contacts is an important basis for safe return to work, and the former director of the US Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services Andy Slavitt and the former director of the US Food and Drug Administration Scott Gottlieb Call on Congress to allocate $ 46 billion to build a team of trackers and supporting isolation measures. They proposed to expand the team of followers with US $ 12 billion, because 180,000 followers need to be added before the vaccine is launched; US $ 4.5 billion is used to rent idle hotels to isolate infected people and close contacts; US $ 30 billion provides 18 for voluntary isolates Monthly income support, $ 50 per person per day allowance.
Some analysts say that the United States needs 100,000 to 300,000 followers. For this figure, Fei Hei believes that the number of tracking teams depends on the number of cases, and there are more followers. It also depends on the number of people in close contact with each case. Today, at home, there may be only 2-3 contacts, and after going out, it may be 30 or 40. In addition, it also depends on the efficiency of the process and the degree of participation. The more people reply to the phone or e-mail of the health department and provide detailed location information and contact information, and provide status information every day, the easier the process.
To improve tracking efficiency, US technology giants have jointly developed applications to help track infected people and close contacts. Although technological means help to improve the efficiency of tracking work, Fei Heping also emphasized that technological means cannot be considered omnipotent. Because the work of tracking contacts is basically a process of dealing with people, it requires a lot of interpersonal skills. It is to talk to someone and win their trust, maintain this trust, protect the confidentiality of the interviewees, and help them recall close contacts, This allows them to investigate their close contacts.
Restart the economy during the epidemic, there is no homework to copy
While solving old problems such as detecting, isolating, and tracking close contacts, the federal and state governments also face new challenges brought about by economic restarts, especially how to assess whether the states can trigger triggers safely. This degree is likely to cause the epidemic to rebound. Such worries are far from unfounded. In Fei Heping&#39;s view, although the United States is reaching its peak and declining, any city or anywhere may suddenly change the situation overnight. &quot;The biggest question is, what happens when we start to relax the faucet, it is important to understand this.&quot;
The Trump administration issued new guidelines for restarting the economy in mid-April. This guideline divides the economic restart into three stages, but does not propose a specific time to enter each stage, but encourages the state governments to exercise discretion based on data. The policy sets a broad standard of relaxation (gating criteria), which must be met to enter the next stage. States should report the number of confirmed cases or the number of positive test results for two consecutive weeks before they can enter restart stage. The data shows that the number of confirmed cases no longer surges before entering other stages. On the contrary, if there are still new confirmed cases every day, it must be reduced to a certain number before it can be reopened.
The guidelines do not specify how much to reduce to reopen, and there are fears that this will lead to a lack of standards in implementation. Compared with setting a fixed number, Fei Heping believes that all threshold values need to be tested. Some people think that this number is not more than 40 new cases per million people per day. Maybe this number is too high, maybe too low, maybe not There should be a number. &quot;We need to try to see what works and improve projects and procedures based on experience. Such a threshold is not magic, and there is no perfect correct answer. What we have to do is try and strictly evaluate whether it is effective and feasible. Good public health The project uses real-time data to improve performance. &quot;
Restarting the economy is such a process of crossing the river by feeling the stones. The speed and method of restarting vary from state to state. The states began to announce the phased unblocking plan one after another, some of them began to unblock gradually, and some extended the family order, because they worried that premature action may hinder the fight against the epidemic. Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker extended his home proposal until mid-May because the number of confirmed cases and deaths continues to rise.
California is the most populous state in the United States, and it will take a few weeks before the quarantine order is completely relaxed, because Governor Gavin Newsom believes that the epidemic has not disappeared and has not passed the difficulty. It may induce a second wave of epidemic, and its destructive power may be more serious than the first wave. He therefore emphasized that the California government must first improve the ability of virus detection and contact tracing. It is possible to safely restart some manufacturing, retail, and public places with a moderate adjustment of social alienation orders, but it may take months for the economy to fully restart.
The extension of the home order puts the governor under public pressure. Some officials in rural areas in California and the West Coast states have opposed the implementation of the strict home order, and some people have taken to the streets to protest the home order. This year is an election year. Not only must the president be elected, but some states must be elected as governors, and some seats in the Senate and the House of Representatives will also be elected. The economic downturn has brought great pressure to re-election. During the seminar, American media reporters raised concerns about whether the governors would conceal and fabricate data in order to restart the economy as soon as possible, especially in the White House guidelines. For this possibility, Fei Heping said, &quot;You can cheat digitally, but you cannot cheat the virus. If you reopen it before you are ready, you will face a high risk of explosive spread of the virus.&quot;
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo believes that restarting the economy is not determined by political factors or rhetoric, and emotions cannot promote the reopening process. He plans to reopen the affected areas of the state as soon as possible in mid-May, but at the same time set up a &quot;fuse mechanism&quot; to warn of the outbreak of the epidemic again and contain economic activities. If the number of patients received by the hospital system in an area of the state reaches 70% of the treatment capacity or the transmission rate reaches 1.1 (that is, the number of people infected by each patient reaches 1.1), the &quot;fuse mechanism&quot; will be triggered. Currently, the spread rate in New York State is about 0.8, which means that less than one person is infected by each patient.
&quot;We want to reopen our economic activities, but we want to do this without infecting more people or causing the hospital system to be crushed.&quot; Cuomo said.
This mechanism is necessary to safely restart the economy, especially considering that the opening hours of the states are different, and there must be a mechanism to ensure that it can be tightened again. &quot;If the number of cases increases, tighten the faucet, decrease and loosen the faucet, and move quickly. This means that if something goes wrong, this mechanism must encourage people to stay home and hide from the virus immediately. This also means that contact tracking needs to be expanded , Quarantine and quarantine quarantine scope, in order to quickly take measures and prevent when a case or contact occurs, to avoid a cluster outbreak into an epidemic outbreak. &quot;Fei Heping said.
The efforts of various sectors of the United States to try to restart the economy have just taken the first step. Both the federal and state governments are trying to restart the economy in the safest possible way, which faces many uncertainties, especially the threat of whether the epidemic will come back this autumn . Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, recently pessimistically predicted that if researchers cannot find effective treatments to fight the new coronavirus, the United States may have a bad fall and winter, because in his view, The comeback of the virus is inevitable, and may not even disappear.
Whether the new coronavirus will make a comeback this winter and hit the economy hard is a question that is torturing everyone. Fei Heping believes that we cannot determine what will happen in the future. The new coronavirus can be mutated and it is not known whether it will behave differently in different climates. What we know is that the new coronavirus is very deadly. This is the worst public health disaster in 100 years. Most people in the world have not been exposed to this virus, and we do not yet know how destructive it is in places in Africa and Asia that have not yet spread widely but have low medical capacity. Time will tell us all this. But what we do know is that the more we do now, the safer we will be when we go out.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming