URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi1018948.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200063

Date : 2020-05-02 17:17:00
Title : Behind the emergency use authorization of ridxivir: how should we view the difference between the Chinese and American test results?
Ariticle : 
Original Title: Behind the Emergency Use Authorization of Ridesivir: How to Treat the Differences between Chinese and American Test Results?
On May 1, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an emergency use authorization (EUA) for the treatment of new coronary pneumonia for the antiviral drug remdesivir, which is still under study, for the treatment of suspected or confirmed new crowns Severe patients with pneumonia include adults and children.
The FDA says that although little is known about the safety and effectiveness of using redisive in the treatment of new coronary pneumonia, the drug has been shown in a clinical trial to shorten the recovery time of some patients.
Redcive was once considered to be the most promising drug against the new coronavirus, developed by Gilead Sciences, headquartered in California, USA. Redoxir has shown some hope in the treatment of SARS and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), both of which are caused by coronavirus.
On April 29th, the research teams of China and the United States simultaneously published the results of three clinical trials of redoxivir, and their conclusions were different, which caused heated discussion. Chinese researchers believe that Radecivir therapy and standard therapy have no statistically significant clinical benefit, while US researchers believe that Radecivir has a significant positive effect in reducing recovery time.
In this regard, Professor John Norrie, professor of medical statistics and experimental methodology at the School of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine at the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom, told reporters at Peng Mei News (www.thepaper.cn) that the test conclusions of the Chinese and American teams are not contradictory.
&quot;Although their results are different from the performance point of view, one is inconclusive and the other is showing possible benefits, so this is not contradictory.
Three clinical trials of ridcive
Although the approval and use of Radecivir in the United States has been accelerated, the results of recent clinical trials of Radecivir have not yet been explained as a &quot;magic drug&quot; for the treatment of new coronary pneumonia.
On April 29, the website of the internationally renowned medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot; published the results of a clinical trial of a new coronary pneumonia antiviral drug, redoxir, conducted by a Chinese team. The results of the study showed that no statistically significant clinical benefit was observed in the combination of Radecivir with standard therapy compared with standard therapy.
The study conducted by the Chinese team is the first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of intravenous reduxil in the treatment of adult patients with severe coronary artery disease (COVID-19). The experiment was conducted in 10 hospitals in Wuhan, Hubei. However, the study was terminated without reaching the predetermined sample size.
Professor Cao Bin of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital and Capital Medical University, who was in charge of the study, said: &quot;This trial found that although ridxivir is safe and well tolerated, it has no significant benefits compared to placebo.&quot;
Professor John Norrie (not involved in the study) commented in the review article published in The Lancet at the same time: &quot;This study is reasonably designed, it is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter randomized trial and is well implemented. Has high program compliance and rarely loses follow-up. &quot;
On the same day, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) also announced that positive data have been obtained in the study of redcivir in the treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia, and the trial has reached its main endpoint.
On April 29th, the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Fuch, said that Ridesivir showed efficacy in a randomized double-blind controlled trial of NIAID, which can moderately accelerate Speed of recovery.
The trial recruited 1063 patients with new coronary pneumonia from many countries around the world. Preliminary results showed that the median recovery time of the reduxil treatment group was 11 days, while the median recovery time of the placebo control group was 15 days. (P &lt;0.001). At the same time, the mortality rate of the reduxil treatment group was 8.0%, which was not statistically significant compared to the 11.6% mortality rate of the placebo control group (p = 0.059).
&quot;Accelerating the recovery time by 30% doesn&#39;t sound as attractive as a 100% cure.&quot; Fuch said, &quot;But this is a very important piece of evidence, because it has been proven that redcive can block the new crown virus. &quot;
The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is one of the 27 institutes and centers under the National Institutes of Health (NIH) under the US Department of Health and Human Services.
On the same day, Gilead also announced the results of an open-label phase III clinical trial. Studies have shown that patients receiving 5-day courses of reduxil have similar clinical improvements to those receiving 10-day courses of reduxil.
&quot;These data are encouraging because they show that patients receiving a shorter 5-day treatment course of redoxivir have similar clinical improvements as patients receiving a 10-day treatment course.&quot; Aruna Subramanian, MD, chief clinical medicine professor of disease and one of the principal investigators of the trial, said, &quot;Although other data are still needed, if the results are proven to be safe and effective, these results help to make people more Clearly understand how to optimize its treatment plan. &quot;
The good news is the key to prompting the US FDA to issue an emergency use authorization to ridcive. At present, there have been more than one million cases of new coronary pneumonia diagnosed in the United States, and the demand for therapeutic drugs is obviously the most urgent.
British expert: The conclusion of the Sino-US test is not contradictory, and more research is still needed
Why did the results of the clinical trials of the Sino-US research team point to different conclusions? How can the differences in the above test results be considered when Redxive has been authorized for emergency use?
John Norrie, a professor of medical statistics and experimental methodology at the School of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine at the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom, told reporters that he did not believe that the Chinese and American experimental conclusions were contrary, because the Chinese research was inconclusive and was not drawn Redcive is beneficial, nor can it be said that redcive is useless. The clinical trial in China was terminated early. The participants were 237 patients. The study in the United States is larger and can show statistical significance and clinical value in the main results of the recovery time of patients.
&quot;Therefore, although the results of their research are different from the performance point of view, one is inconclusive and the other is showing possible benefits, so this is not contradictory.
Professor John Norrie&#39;s comment also mentioned that the design of clinical trials in China is good, but the trial ended early, resulting in the study &quot;ineffective&quot; and the data does not have significant statistical significance, so it is impossible to draw definitive conclusions. John Norrie told a surging news reporter that insufficient sample size meant that the results of the study were &quot;underpowered.&quot;
Gilead also proposed an &quot;inconclusive&quot; statement before the results of the clinical trials of the aforementioned Chinese team have been officially announced.
On April 24, the British Financial Times reported that according to a draft document published by the World Health Organization unexpectedly, the potential effective drug anti-new crown developed by Gilead, redoxivir, in its first random treatment of new crown virus The failure of the clinical trial disappointed scientists and investors who had high hopes for it.
At that time, Gilead responded that the article contained an inappropriate description of the study. Due to the low enrollment rate, the study was terminated early. Therefore, its data is insufficient to support statistically significant conclusions. For its part, the results of this study are inconclusive. Although data trends suggest the potential benefit of redoxivir, especially among patients who are treated early.
Dr. Jennifer Ron, a cell biologist at the University of London School of Medicine, said in a commentary article on the results of the Redcive trial published by the Guardian in the UK on April 30, although people prefer science &quot;black and white&quot;, However, clinical trials are rarely deterministic. The new therapy may fail in a key trial, but it will eventually go to the market, because different test parameters are different: the number of patients involved may be different, and may be different. Dose, as well as setting different endpoints and success metrics. In addition, the degree of the patient&#39;s condition when taking the treatment is also an important factor, which is especially critical for antiviral drugs that usually show greater utility in the early stages of the disease.
However, in response to the question that the conclusions of the clinical trials between China and the United States are quite different, Professor Cao Bin, the head of the Chinese clinical trials at Redcive, believes that the evaluation standards of the two sides are different. He responded to the surging news reporters saying: &quot;This is two different studies, the evaluation criteria are different.&quot; &quot;The standard used by the US NIH at the beginning was the same as ours, it was later changed.&quot; Cao Bin said.
Regarding the impact of the lower number of participants on the trial, Professor Cao Bin said in an interview with Caixin that if the drug is effective, the effect should not be difficult to show. &quot;237 patients should not be too small. If redcive is really a magic drug and the control group is a placebo. If the difference between the two is large, it can be seen no matter how they are compared.
As for the positive conclusion of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) trial, John Norrie told the surging reporter that we need to pay more attention to the institution ’s professional journals (such as the New England Journal of Medicine, The Lancet, etc.) Publish peer-reviewed data on test results, including complete and finally validated data sets for efficacy, safety, viral load, death, and subgroup analysis. If the final data can confirm the above-mentioned effective conclusions of Redcive, then this will be good news.
According to the New York Times, some scientists are also uneasy about the way in which the research results are disclosed, and the research results are disclosed without peer review and official publication. Dr. Steve Vinson, a cardiologist at the Cranf Clinic who has conducted dozens of clinical trials, put forward, &quot;Where is the data?&quot; He said that scientists need to review data related to drug side effects to further evaluate their benefits, &quot; This is too important to deal with in such a hasty manner. &quot;
There are also scientists who are confident in Foch ’s assessment, Stanford University global health expert Michele Barry said, “Before peer review and formal publication, and before research shows the benefits of reducing mortality, a drug is called a“ cured ” &#39;Standard of care&#39; is very rare. &quot;
John Norrie said that based on existing information, if Ridesivir has a certain effect, it is understandable that people will want to use it, so morally, it may be difficult to do random placebo against Radesivir Controlled trials.
&quot;However, there are still many things to know about the duration of treatment and how early it is used for treatment. In addition, more data is needed, such as which type of person may not be useful, but it is very useful for another type of person. Useful, these all need to be investigated, confirmed and denied in carefully designed and conducted research. &quot;Professor John Norrie said to the surging news reporter.
According to the British Guardian, Dr. Elena K Schneider-Futschik from the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics at the University of Melbourne Fast recovery? Is Radecivir more beneficial to younger patients than older patients? At what stage of infection does interventional therapy work best? Hopefully, global clinical research will answer these questions. &quot;
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming