URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/gov/xlxw/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0801762.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100057

Date : 2020-05-01 04:12:00
Title : Let youth shine more brilliantly
Ariticle : 
Original Title: Bringing Youth to a More Brilliant Brilliance—Overseas Chinese Youth Hotly Talks about the First Anniversary of General Secretary Xi Jinping ’s Important Speech at the 100th Anniversary of the May Fourth Movement
On April 30 last year, General Secretary Xi Jinping delivered an important speech at the conference commemorating the 100th anniversary of the May 4th Movement, pointing out that &quot;Chinese youth in the new era must have national feelings and human care, and promote the Chinese culture to admire the world and the world. To fight for the public spirit, to realize the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, to promote the joint construction of the “Belt and Road” and the construction of a community with a shared future for mankind. ” On the first anniversary of General Secretary Xi Jinping ’s important speech, young diplomats interviewed by our reporters, members of the foreign aid medical team, members of the anti-epidemic medical expert group, peacekeeping forces officers and soldiers, employees of Chinese-funded enterprises, and international students have expressed that they should keep in mind General Secretary Xi Jinping asked him to work hard and show his talents in his work to fight against the new crown pneumonia epidemic, so that youth can shine more brilliantly in the dedication for the motherland, the people, the nation, and humanity. .
　　
Youth ’s lofty ideals and firm convictions are the driving force for a country and a nation that is unstoppable. Faced with the sudden new pneumonia epidemic, the vast majority of overseas youths are deeply concerned with the motherland, donated money and donated money, cared for and supported the domestic anti-epidemic struggle, and manifested their precious patriotic feelings. At the same time, they are also actively involved in the work of national defense against epidemics, contribute to the promotion of global anti-epidemic cooperation, and show the world a selfless international humanitarian spirit.
&quot;In the face of the epidemic, our overseas Chinese youths must have national feelings as well as human care.&quot; He Jiaheng, chairman of the University of Michigan Chinese Students and Scholars Association, said that at the difficult time for the Chinese people to fight the epidemic, Chinese students at the University of Michigan spontaneously sent Donated three batches of medical supplies in China. &quot;Our patriotic action also touched the American people. When mailing the second batch of supplies, the post office was ready to leave work because of the heavy snow, but the staff learned to take the initiative to work overtime to complete the mailing work.&quot;
The Federation also donated protective clothing for the medical staff working on the epidemic prevention in the school together with local Chinese groups. &quot;Foreign students are a business card of the motherland abroad. Hope that through us, the world can feel the goodwill and responsibility of China, and promote the cooperation of all countries to achieve the final victory in the global anti-epidemic.&quot;
&quot;Answer any questions in the embassy&#39;s WeChat public account at any time; answer the call for help from the caller in the early morning; deal with every email consultation in a timely manner; stay up all night to assist students in the West to take a temporary flight to return to the motherland ... Under the epidemic, I The work with the young diplomats of the embassy must be more meticulous. &quot;Chen Qiuzhu, a diplomat of the Chinese embassy in Spain, said that everything he handles may be related to the vital interests of Chinese citizens in the West, and even their health. Safety. &quot;Participating in the anti-epidemic work abroad is to practice the May 4th spirit with youth on the diplomatic front and show great patriotic feelings.&quot;
&quot;The hope of the country lies in the youth, the future of the nation lies in the youth, we are in a critical period of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and we are faced with rare opportunities for life.&quot; We did not forget our mission, actively participated in the epidemic prevention work, formulated the &quot;New Coronavirus Emergency Treatment Plan&quot;, organized anti-epidemic training drills, carried out protection knowledge training assessment, and proposed strict unit control, minor self-isolation, emergency appointments and more This proposal was positively evaluated by the United Nations. &quot;We must use the ideals of youth, the vitality of youth, and the struggle of youth to leave a beautiful presence on the battlefield of peacekeeping and contribute to the realization of the Chinese dream of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.&quot;
　　
The times call for responsibility, national revitalization is the responsibility of youth, and struggle is the brightest background of youth. Overseas youths expressed that they must cherish this era, take on the mission of the era, experience in their responsibilities, and grow up in due diligence.
&quot;Chinese youth in the new era must take on the responsibility of the times. In the current epidemic situation, young people must play the role of meeting the difficulties and stepping forward.&quot; Long Qisui, a member of the Chinese medical expert group for assistance in anti-epidemic medicine in Serbia, is currently guiding the local order in Serbia Carry out various anti-epidemic work. During his stay in Serbia, the Chinese expert team worked closely with the local government to implement precise strategies, actively shared China&#39;s anti-epidemic experience and China&#39;s plan, and worked together with the Serbian people to fight the epidemic. The high sense of responsibility and selflessness demonstrated by the local government were praised by the local government. &quot;As a young generation, I will cherish the mission entrusted by the country more, experience it in my responsibilities, grow up in due diligence, and live up to the expectations of the motherland and the people.&quot;
&quot;Clearing the haze of war for the local people, building a peace sentry tower in the sensitive area of the border between Lebanon and Israel, and protecting the peace of the region, this is the role of the Chinese youth.&quot; Sun Shuai, a member of China&#39;s eighteenth batch of peacekeeping multi-functional engineering units to Lebanon, said, General Secretary Xi Jinping expressed his earnest expectation for young people in the new era to love the great motherland and shoulder the responsibility of the times. The young peacekeepers and soldiers who went to Lebanon are working hard to implement them with practical actions and devote their youthful strength to humanitarian relief in Lebanon. &quot;We will not be afraid of facing all difficulties and obstacles, brave the tide, forge ahead, use our hard skills to build merit, and write the struggle movement with youthful blood.&quot;
&quot;Young people in the new era must be brave in their struggle. In the face of difficulties and obstacles, young people must move forward.&quot; Sun Chenqian, an attache to the Overseas Chinese Affairs Department of the Consulate General of the Chinese Embassy in Japan, said that in the face of the epidemic, all young comrades of the Chinese Embassy in Japan worked hard to The embassy&#39;s official website released more than 30 consul reminders, and produced and released the &quot;New Coronary Pneumonia Diagnosed Compatriots Contact Form&quot; to provide one-on-one assistance for the diagnosed compatriots in need. &quot;The more severe the epidemic, the more we need our diplomats to come forward and safeguard the safety and rights of overseas Chinese citizens.&quot;
　　
Young people are a golden period of hard work and growth. The vast number of overseas youths expressed that they should cherish Shaohua and live up to their youth, work hard to learn and master scientific knowledge, improve their internal qualities, temper their hard skills, and walk right and far in life.
&quot;The hope of the country lies in the youth, and the future of the nation lies in the youth. I am willing to cultivate moral virtue, develop excellent skills, take the responsibility of the times, take root in the African continent, and contribute youth and strength to the cause of China&#39;s power grid and the electric power bright project of the African continent! &quot;Zheng Yuepeng, business manager of China State Grid Corporation&#39;s Africa office, said.
&quot;One generation has one generation of long march, one generation has one generation of responsibility.&quot; Zhang Shuai, a Chinese student studying for a PhD in science and engineering in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, said that in the face of the sudden epidemic, Chinese young people at home and abroad are brave enough to move forward and demonstrate Chinese youth Style and responsibility. As young people living overseas, they must keep in mind the needs of the motherland and the interests of the people. After completing their studies, they will contribute what they have learned to the motherland ’s cause of building a modern and powerful country. &quot;Let youth be the motherland, the people, and the nation. , Giving more brilliance to the dedication of mankind. &quot;
Chen Hanzhi, a doctoral student in international relations at the Asian-African College of Moscow University in Russia and chairman of the Chinese Students Association of Russia, said: &quot;We are closer to the goal of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation than any period in history. It can be achieved. As overseas students, in the new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics, we should grasp the baton in our hands, cherish the time, study hard, enhance our skills, closely combine the youth dream with the Chinese dream, and return to the whole body. Going to the modernization of the motherland. &quot;
Gu Xia, manager of the investment promotion department of Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone Co., Ltd. said that as a builder of the Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone, he must bear in mind that his words and deeds not only represent himself, but also represent the image of Chinese youth. &quot;The people of China and Cambodia are looking forward to help each other and cooperate in the fight against epidemics. As young employees participating in the epidemic prevention and control of the Special Economic Zone, we must not humiliate our mission, stick to our posts and strive hard, and contribute to the youth of China in winning the global blockade of epidemic prevention and control.
(Reporter Beijing, Washington, Madrid, Johannesburg, Rome, Cairo, Tokyo, Rio de Janeiro, Bangkok, Moscow, April 30th) Reporter Wu Gang, Yang Xun, Zheng Qi, Chen Xiaohang, Lu Qiang, Li Yingyan, Ye Qi, Zhou Zhi, Liu (Military Kingdom, Zhang Yuannan, Zhao Yipu, Zhang Guangzheng, Qu Pei)
Editor in charge: Wang Shumiao