URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0847845.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100040

Date : 2020-05-01 13:04:00
Title : National Health and Safety Commission: Medical institutions should strictly implement the system of responsibility for the first diagnosis and do a good job in closed-loop management of the entire chain
Ariticle : 
Original title: National Health and Health Commission: Medical institutions should strictly implement the system of responsibility for the first diagnosis
Joint Defense and Joint Control Mechanism Zongfa [2020] No. 169
Joint defense and joint control mechanism of various provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (leading group, headquarters):
At present, the outbreak of overseas epidemic outbreaks continues to grow, China is under more pressure to prevent foreign imports, and the complexity of preventing domestic epidemic rebounds is also increasing. In order to implement the requirements of &quot;foreign prevention input, internal prevention rebound&quot; in the normalized epidemic prevention and control work, further strengthen the various measures of infection prevention and control in medical institutions, minimize the risk of nosocomial infection, and consolidate the hard-won prevention and control The results are hereby notified as follows:
　　
Because the new coronavirus is highly infectious, medical institutions face a higher risk of nosocomial infections, and it is prone to cluster epidemics. Recently, there has been a cluster of new coronary pneumonia in individual medical institutions in Shandong and Heilongjiang provinces, which fully shows that the current situation of &quot;foreign defense import and internal defense rebound&quot; facing medical institutions is still grim. All localities must thoroughly implement the Party Central Committee ’s deployment requirements for the normalization of epidemic prevention and control work, stand at the height of winning the epidemic prevention and control battle, and safeguarding the health and rights of the people, to eliminate paralysis and slack thoughts, investigate loopholes, and fill shortcomings Continue to strengthen hospital infection management and implement various work measures for infection prevention and control in medical institutions.
　　
Medical institutions should consolidate the responsibility of &quot;outposts&quot; for hot clinics and strictly implement the responsibility system for first clinics. All medical personnel in hot clinics should be proficient in and implement the new coronary pneumonia prevention and control and diagnosis and treatment plan, strengthen personal protection, and standardize the collection, transportation, storage and testing of new coronavirus nucleic acid samples. For suspected or confirmed patients with new coronary pneumonia, medical personnel shall promptly report and isolate them in accordance with relevant regulations, and promptly transfer to designated hospitals for further diagnosis and treatment. Patients shall not be allowed to transfer or leave the hospital without authorization.
　　
Medical institutions must strictly implement the local people&#39;s government&#39;s management requirements for &quot;four types of personnel&quot; (confirmed cases, suspected cases, fever patients, and close contacts) according to the epidemic situation and risk level in the region, and formulate patient admission screening during the epidemic. Process. Conditional medical institutions can set up transitional (buffer) wards to treat patients in new-income hospitals in a single room. After eliminating the new coronavirus infection, they can be transferred to conventional wards for further hospitalization to reduce the risk of potential cross-infection in the hospital.
　　
Medical institutions should strengthen the management of wards and formulate strict escort and visit systems. Medical institutions are encouraged to implement video visits. It is necessary to strengthen high-quality nursing services and implement non-essential unaccompanied and unvisited visits. If there must be accompanying or visiting, the number and time of accompanying and visiting personnel should be strictly limited, and personal protection should be done to reduce the close contact of personnel. Accompanying and visiting personnel should do a good job in temperature detection, health status and information registration, and strictly limit their travel routes and activities. Strengthen access control and security management of wards in wards, reduce unauthorized visits and escorts, and random access of unrelated personnel.
　　
All localities should strengthen the construction of laboratories in medical institutions and carry out the construction of all third-level hospitals and county hospitals so that they can quickly meet the requirements for the detection of new coronavirus nucleic acids; other hospitals above the second level should also strengthen the construction to gradually achieve the detection of new coronavirus nucleic acids Conditions, according to the epidemic prevention and control situation needs to be able to carry out nucleic acid testing at any time. Medical institutions should carry out the detection of nucleic acid of new coronavirus in accordance with the principle of &quot;exhaustive inspection should be performed, willingness to perform exhaustive examination&quot; for patients who have been diagnosed in hot outpatients, patients who are highly suspected of being infected with new coronavirus in the emergency department, admitted patients, accompanying staff and medical staff. To detect the risk of nosocomial infection in time.
　　
Medical institutions must strictly implement standard prevention, and all personnel entering medical institutions should choose and wear masks correctly and perform hand hygiene correctly. It is necessary to strengthen the cleaning and disinfection of the diagnosis and treatment environment, do a good job of environmental ventilation management, implement the requirements of zoning management, reasonably divide the clean area, potential pollution area and pollution area, and distinguish medical staff passages and patient passages. Medical personnel are required to adhere to standard prevention in diagnosis and treatment activities, and follow the &quot;Guidelines for the Protection of Medical Staff during the New Coronary Pneumonia Outbreak (Trial)&quot; (Guo Wei Ban Medical Letter [2020] No. 155) to properly protect and use protective equipment properly and reasonably. On the basis of standard prevention, additional protection should be provided according to the level of risk of diagnosis and treatment operations.
　　
Medical institutions at all levels and types should look back on the pre-hospital prevention and control work, pay close attention to investigating loopholes, carry out rectification, and fill in the shortcomings. The key departments of infection prevention and control, especially the key links that are prone to imported epidemics and cluster epidemics, as well as the prevention and control infrastructure and basic processes, should be sorted out one by one, and a rectification account should be established for the discovered problems and risk points to clarify the rectification. Responsible department, responsible person and time limit for rectification shall be managed one by one. The health and administrative department should guide and supervise the nosocomial infection investigation and rectification of medical institutions, and carry out spot checks, including not only the designated hospitals for the diagnosis and treatment of new coronary pneumonia, but also non-specified medical institutions, to minimize the risk of nosocomial infections in the jurisdiction. Effectively prevent and control nosocomial infections.
State Council responds to new coronavirus pneumonia
Comprehensive Group of Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for Epidemic Situation
April 30, 2020
Source: National Health Commission
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu