URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-04-30/doc-iircuyvi0695039.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000047

Date : 2020-04-30 13:47:00
Title : Finally, Trump still killed himself!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Finally, Trump still killed himself!
However, Trump&#39;s unreliable &quot;suggestion&quot; goes beyond the phrase &quot;injection disinfectant&quot;. . . . . .
The epidemic situation of the new crown in the United States is severe. President Trump has repeatedly made &quot;curious moves.&quot; He had previously proposed at the briefing that he could try &quot;injection disinfectant&quot; as a method of treating the new crown virus.
As soon as this statement came out, it was met with strong opposition from almost everyone-including medical professionals and disinfectant manufacturers.
But now, what American medical experts worry about is still happening.
According to US media reports, the US police are investigating the cause of death of a man in Arizona last month. The man died after taking a cleaning agent containing chloroquine.
His wife said in an interview that they chose to take it only after hearing President Trump ’s “suggestions” that chloroquine is good for defending against the new coronavirus.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noticed that a series of chain reactions occurred after Trump spoke out of “injecting disinfectant” to prevent and control the new crown epidemic. Although he has defended all this, his approval rating has been declining He even sued the campaign manager.
Fox News reported on the 30th that the couple from Arizona in the United States, Wanda and Gary Renius, in order to defend against the new coronavirus, had previously drank a cocktail of soda water and fish tank cleaner.
The report pointed out that the fish tank cleaner contains chloroquine phosphate, but the US Food and Drug Administration warned that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine should not be used outside hospitals or clinics. Within 30 minutes of taking this drug, Need to go to the hospital for help immediately.
Dr. Daniel Brooks, medical director of the American Center for Toxicology and Drug Information, said that at present, Wanda has spit out most of the drugs, but Gary Renius can no longer wake up.
Wanda, 61, said in an interview with the media that she and her husband chose to take it after hearing Trump talk about the possible benefits of chloroquine against the new coronavirus.
Wanda appealed to the American public, &quot;My current recommendation is not to believe what the president and others say because they may not even know what they are saying.&quot;
At the White House outbreak briefing on the 23rd, the acting director of the Department of Homeland Security&#39;s Science and Technology Council William Bryan announced the latest research results on the new coronavirus, including sunlight and high temperature help to suppress the new coronavirus; disinfectants can be in 5 Kill new coronavirus in saliva or respiratory mucus within minutes.
Trump then suggested: &quot;We can do similar things, by injection or thorough cleaning ... it will be interesting to test.&quot;
Later, many experts, including Stephen Hahn, director of the US Food and Drug Administration, clamored for the public that there was no evidence that the hand sanitizer could treat new coronary pneumonia and could not be ingested, inhaled, or injected intravenously.
However, there are still many people who believe it is true. After Trump &quot;live brought the goods&quot;, some local health consultation hotlines were exploded.
Realizing that the &quot;big basket&quot; was stabbed, a White House spokesperson and Trump himself came forward to defend on the 24th. Trump said he was only expressing &quot;sarcasm.&quot; However, American public opinion did not buy the bill, and presented evidence one after another, emphasizing that the President was serious when making this suggestion.
Affected by unreliable remarks, Trump&#39;s approval rating has recently declined.
According to CNN&#39;s report on the 29th, last Friday, looking at the declining support rate data, Trump was furious in the face of the fierce criticism brought about by his &quot;injection disinfectant can effectively resist viruses&quot;.
Three people familiar with the situation revealed that Trump not only scolded Pascal for the poor approval figures on the phone, dumped his pot on him, and even threatened to sue him.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noticed that since the outbreak of the new crown in the United States, Trump has used the White House Daily Epidemic Briefing as a showground for his re-election campaign. However, after the &quot;injection disinfectant&quot; remarks, he lowered his frequency of attending the White House daily outbreak briefing.
However, Trump&#39;s unreliable &quot;recommendations&quot; at the meeting, and more than &quot;injection of disinfectant&quot;, his misjudgment of the situation of the new US crown epidemic has caused the American people to fall into the misfortune of the new crown virus.
As of 9 o&#39;clock on the 30th, Beijing time, a total of 1064194 cases of new coronavirus pneumonia were diagnosed in the United States, with a total of 61656 deaths.
Reference materials: Overseas Network, Global Network, CCTV News, etc.
Editor in charge: Zheng Yapeng