URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1362022.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500035

Date : 2020-05-05 07:00:00
Title : Zhong Nanshan connects international students and gives 9 latest judgments!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Zhong Nanshan connects international students and gives 9 latest judgments!
According to the latest WHO data, there are more than 3.4 million confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia worldwide. The epidemic prevention and control situation is still grim. How should more than 1.4 million overseas students in China protect themselves? How to minimize the impact of the epidemic on academics? On the evening of May 4, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Health and Welfare Commission jointly invited Zhong Nanshan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, to answer questions for foreign students in the United States, Russia and other areas where epidemics are most common. More than an hour of connection, a lot of information!
1. Not in favor of group immunization, because many people have to be sacrificed
In the live broadcast connection, Zhong Nanshan said that he did not approve of &quot;group immunization&quot; because it would cost many people to achieve &quot;group immunization&quot;. Zhong Nanshan said that there are reports in Europe that 20% of people have antibodies and 25% in some countries, but it is far from the so-called group immunity. To achieve group immunity, generally 60% -70% of people have this possibility after infection, and it is still far from being achieved.
Therefore, Zhong Nanshan said that he did not approve of this approach because too many people were sacrificed. &quot;We have many ways. We can prevent and protect, and we will buy time and make vaccines.&quot;
2. The infectivity of the new coronavirus is unexpected
According to Zhong Nanshan, the infectivity of New Coronavirus is unexpected. From the perspective of infectivity index, the general influenza is 1, SARS is close to 2, the Middle East respiratory syndrome is 1.5, and New Coronary Pneumonia is 3.
3. There is currently no evidence that mosquito bites can transmit new coronavirus
Academician Zhong Nanshan said that in general, the survival rate and activity rate of the virus under a high temperature environment are relatively poor. When the summer comes, the virus activity will decline, and the high temperature is not good for the virus activity. However, the ultraviolet rays in nature are not strong enough to be sterilized, and it is impossible to rely solely on high temperature to block the spread of the virus. He mentioned that mosquito bites can infect many diseases, such as malaria and dengue fever, which are more common in Africa. But so far, there is no evidence that the new coronavirus can spread through mosquitoes.
4. Tornado and Blizzard will not speed up the spread of the virus
Zhong Nanshan said that the virus must be attached to something to spread, the most prominent is spread through droplets. In the event of snowfall or strong winds, the spread of the virus will not only accelerate but also slow down. The wind virus is quickly diluted, and will not spread if it does not reach a certain concentration in the air.
5. There is evidence that Lianhua Qingwen is effective
Zhong Nanshan reminded foreign students that if they have a fever, they should drink plenty of water and eat some medicines taken in the past, such as Baifuling, ibuprofen and Lianhua Qingwen.
He specifically mentioned that just after an experiment was done, there is sufficient evidence to prove that Lianhua Qingwen has a certain effect. In vitro experiments found that Lianhua Qingwen Capsule has some inhibitory effects on the virus. Although it is very weak, the benefit is that it has a good repair effect on cell damage and inflammation caused by the virus. More than 80% of the patients are ordinary new crown patients. Lianhua Qingwen Capsule is more suitable for ordinary new crown pneumonia patients.
6. Does New Coronary Pneumonia have sequelae? Zhong Nanshan: pulmonary fibrosis is not too heavy
Zhong Nanshan said that according to his observation, the patient recovered well after being discharged from the hospital. As long as there is no basic disease, the recovery will be very fast. Even if there are some basic diseases, according to his observation, it is still better than SARS. Zhong Nanshan said that in SARS 17 years ago, some patients still had pulmonary fibrosis half a year to a year later. The lung fibrosis of patients with new coronary pneumonia is not too heavy and looks reversible. &quot;We have performed lung function tests on more than 100 patients and have not returned to normal levels, but it does not seem to be too damaging and will gradually recover, so the sequelae are not great.
7. What should we pay attention to in the lives of international students?
Zhong Nanshan suggested:
First, wear a mask for protection. Don&#39;t let people follow the cloud, and don&#39;t go into the countryside to follow the customs. In the past, many people had a different view of wearing masks in China. Now, some countries that were very opposed to wearing masks have started wearing masks. It was our correct approach that drove them.
Second, many people live together, and common spaces such as toilets and kitchens should be disinfected and washed.
8. Zhong Nanshan recalled the experience of studying abroad 41 years ago and talked about how to relieve stress
Some international students asked that under the epidemic, the pressure on international students was generally very high. Zhong Nanshan recalled 41 his experience of studying in the UK and taught everyone how to relieve stress. Zhong Nanshan said that he felt the same way at the time. He was lonely and depressed. He also had heavy academic work and great pressure. With the outbreak of the global epidemic now, he particularly understands the feelings of international students. He encouraged young overseas students to take this epidemic as a test of their own psychology, not only for physical protection, but also for psychological protection. Persevere in your studies and temper your willpower.
9. If you want to go back to China, how to protect yourself?
Zhong Nanshan suggested:
First, if it is possible to do nucleic acid testing before returning to China, make sure you are on board the aircraft in the best condition. The virus has an incubation period of three to seven days, up to a dozen hours on the plane, during which time it is unlikely that the infection will occur and symptoms will appear soon.
Second, pay attention to protection, wear masks and wash your hands.
Third, come back for the test, even if it is positive, you don&#39;t have to panic, take a good rest and cooperate with the treatment.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen