URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/zx/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0845338.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100030

Date : 2020-05-01 12:49:00
Title : Report on the relevant situation of the new coronary pneumonia cluster epidemic in Heilongjiang Province
Ariticle : 
Original title: Notice on the situation of the clustering epidemic of new pneumonia in Heilongjiang Province
Joint Defense and Joint Control Mechanism Zongfa [2020] No. 170
The joint prevention and control mechanism of various provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps in response to the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic situation (leading group, headquarters)
Since April 2020, a local cluster epidemic associated with imported new coronary pneumonia cases has occurred in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang Province, especially involving multiple hospitals that have suffered from nosocomial infections that have lasted for a long time, have many infections, and have a bad social impact Consolidating the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements has brought new pressure. The relevant information is reported as follows:
　　
(1) Aggregated epidemic situation in Harbin. On April 2, Chen Moujun, a 87-year-old patient, was admitted to the Second Hospital of Harbin City because of “body temperature 37.3 ° C, walking on the right lower limb with prolonged incontinence for 4 days”. Admitted lung CT showed that the lungs may be inflammatory. After treatment, there was no improvement. On April 6, he was transferred to the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University to get a fever clinic and was admitted to the respiratory department for inpatient treatment. On April 9th, imaging examination showed that there was a high possibility of new coronary pneumonia. He was transferred to an isolation ward for treatment, and improved the detection of nucleic acid and serological antibody of new coronary pneumonia (previously, the two hospitals did not carry out targeted testing). On April 10, the Harbin CDC reported a positive nucleic acid test result and was diagnosed as a confirmed case, and was transferred to Heilongjiang Provincial Infectious Disease Prevention and Treatment Hospital for treatment. After epidemiological investigations, close contacts were screened for nucleic acids, and dozens of related cases and asymptomatic infections were successively diagnosed, including several medical staff in the above-mentioned hospitals, which triggered a new epidemic of pneumonitis.
(2) Cluster epidemic situation in Mudanjiang City. On April 16, Mudanjiang Kang&#39;an Hospital successively reported 2 suspected cases of new coronary pneumonia (Gong Moulan, Wang Mou), and was diagnosed as a confirmed case on April 18. After epidemiological investigations, close contacts were screened for nucleic acids, and multiple related cases were successively diagnosed, including several medical personnel from Mudanjiang Kang&#39;an Hospital and Mudanjiang North Hospital.
Epidemiological investigations preliminarily believe that the above-mentioned are all local epidemic cases of neoplastic pneumonia caused by imported cases.
　　
(1) Insufficient understanding of the epidemic prevention and control situation. Harbin City and Mudanjiang City, as port cities, failed to fully understand the severe situation of &quot;foreign defense importation, internal defense rebound&quot;, lacked understanding of the risk of foreign imports, and there was a war exhaustion and paralyzed slack thoughts. Relevant hospitals mistakenly believe that the new coronavirus infection can be completely screened out by the customs and community prevention and control, and the possibility of a clustered epidemic in the hospital is extremely small, and there is a fluke.
(2) There are weak links in the pre-hospital prevention and control measures. First, the entry personnel did not implement the 14-day centralized isolation management, and the control measures for the epidemic situation at the source of the &quot;national gate&quot; were not strict enough, resulting in the possibility of missed detection of new coronavirus infection among the entry personnel. The preliminary results of the epidemiological investigation show that the source of the spread of the clustered epidemic in the two cities is the recent immigration personnel. The second is that the community prevention and control measures have not been effectively implemented. For example, the gathering epidemic in Harbin was caused by the dinner of Mr. Chen.
(3) The nucleic acid detection work failed to be carried out in time. Only disease control institutions and infectious disease hospitals in Harbin City can carry out new crown virus nucleic acid testing. Other medical institutions failed to implement the requirements to strengthen laboratory construction and carry out nucleic acid testing in a timely manner, and the relevant departments did not timely carry out effective work such as laboratory filing for medical institutions The guidance has led to most medical institutions not having the nucleic acid detection conditions. Medical staff failed to strictly follow the diagnosis and treatment specifications when they diagnosed and treated fever patients, blindly relied on clinical experience and imaging examination, and failed to carry out nucleic acid detection in time, resulting in misdiagnosis and missed diagnosis.
(4) Poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures. Relevant hospitals have not fully implemented the state&#39;s requirements on hospital prevention and control. The prevention and control measures of key departments such as pre-examination and triage, and hot clinics are all ineffective, failing to effectively carry out appointments and treatments, and rationally diverting patients; the implementation of disinfection and isolation measures is not in place, and the requirements for zoning are not implemented; Visiting system, personnel in different wards flow freely; medical personnel have weak protection awareness, weak sensitivity, and inadequate training.
　　
All localities and medical institutions must learn lessons, draw inferences from others, and draw lessons from it. We must stand at the height of safeguarding the people&#39;s health rights and interests, establish a bottom-line awareness, strengthen job responsibilities, and prevent such epidemics from recurring.
One is a profound understanding of the grim situation facing epidemic prevention and control. All localities should attach great importance to the prevention and control of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic situation, further enhance the sense of responsibility and urgency, tighten the string of epidemic prevention and control, and pay close attention to the normalization of epidemic prevention and control. In particular, the locations of air ports and land border ports should always pay attention to the importation of overseas epidemic situations, and strictly prevent the spread of local infections, the occurrence of related cases or even cluster epidemic situations.
The second is to implement the normalized epidemic prevention and control requirements. All localities should improve and implement a normalized prevention and control mechanism for timely detection, rapid disposal, precise control, and effective treatment, so that the relevant epidemic situations can be discovered and put out together. It is necessary to further implement the requirements of early detection, early reporting, early isolation, and early treatment, and do a good job in the closed-loop management of the entire chain from &quot;overseas&quot; to &quot;national gate&quot; to &quot;home gate&quot;. Strengthen community management, reduce personnel gathering, guide scientific prevention and control, and reduce community communication risks.
The third is to further improve the nucleic acid detection capability of the new coronavirus. All localities should further expand the scope of testing institutions on the basis of disease detection agencies providing new coronavirus nucleic acid testing services, support and guide medical institutions to carry out laboratory construction, so that they can quickly meet the new coronavirus nucleic acid testing conditions, and greatly improve nucleic acid testing capabilities. Relevant departments should strengthen the guidance and management of laboratory records in medical institutions, carry out laboratory quality control, strengthen personnel training, ensure testing quality and biological safety, and improve testing efficiency.
Fourth, continue to lay a solid foundation for hospital infection prevention and control in medical institutions. All localities should regard the management of nosocomial infection prevention and control in medical institutions as an important part of winning the battle against epidemic prevention and control, and provide support in policies, funds, manpower, and materials. Medical institutions are mainly responsible for comrades to personally arrange related work to ensure that the hospital infection prevention and control management system and work requirements are in place. Based on the preliminary work, all medical institutions should carry out a “look back” activity on the prevention and control of infections in hospitals, pay close attention to the inspection of loopholes, fill in shortcomings, establish rectification accounts, and implement number management. The health administrative department should strengthen guidance and supervision, and further strengthen various measures for prevention and control of nosocomial infections in medical institutions.
State Council responds to new coronavirus pneumonia
Comprehensive Group of Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for Epidemic Situation
April 30, 2020
(Information disclosure form: active disclosure)
Source: Healthy China
　　
Responsible Editor: Van Stern