URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iirczymi9130310.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000011

Date : 2020-04-30 03:39:00
Title : The Lancet publishes the world&#39;s first clinical study of the highest evidence level completed
Ariticle : 
Original title: The Lancet publishes the world ’s first clinical study of the highest evidence level completed by Radecivir in China
On the evening of April 29, the international medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot; published online the new coronary pneumonia (COVID-19) antiviral drug Radexivir in Wuhan, China, the world&#39;s first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter The clinical trial results showed that compared with placebo, the antiviral drug ridacive treatment of critically ill hospitalized patients did not accelerate the recovery rate of COVID-19, nor did it reduce the mortality rate.
The research method used in this study, namely a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center clinical trial for a new drug, is recognized as the highest evidence level clinical study. The research published this time was carried out by researchers from 25 units including the National Center for Respiratory Disease Clinical Research, the Institute of Clinical Medicine, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College.
Professor John Norrie of the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom (not involved in the study) commented in the review article published at the same time in The Lancet: &quot;This study is reasonably designed and is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter randomized trial. And it ’s well implemented, has high program compliance, and rarely loses follow-up. &quot;
The world&#39;s first randomized, double-blind, controlled multi-center trial of reduxill in the new crown epidemic
The paper on the results of the above study &quot;Remdixvir in adults with severe new coronary pneumonia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trial&quot; placebo-controlled, multicentre trial) published in The Lancet.
In the context of the global pandemic of the New Crown Epidemic,
This study is the world ’s first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial study of the new coronary pneumonia antiviral drug redoxivir.
In the evening of April 29, Cao Bin, the deputy director of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital, who led the research, said in an interview with Peng Mei News (www.thepaper.cn),
Academician Wang Chen participated in the design and conduct of the experiment throughout the course. The experiment design is very complete, the most stringent standards have been implemented in the research process, and the credibility of the experimental results is also the highest.
The study is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial based on 237 adults (aged 18 and older) in ten hospitals in Wuhan, China. These 237 patients were hospitalized between February 6 and March 12 this year, and were confirmed by the laboratory as adults with serious infection with the new coronavirus.
&quot;This trial found that despite the safety and tolerability of redoxivir, there was no significant benefit compared to placebo.&quot; Cao Bin said that according to the study&#39;s expected trial design, the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan, China The case can be effectively controlled, or the data safety supervision committee of the study can end the study and perform data analysis under the recommendation of the termination criteria established in the study plan.
In this study, from February 6 to March 12, 2020, a total of 237 laboratory-confirmed severe COVID-19 adult inpatients were enrolled. The enrollment conditions for the study were that patients must be enrolled within 12 days of the onset of the disease. Chest imaging examination confirmed pneumonia and oxygen saturation was 94% or less. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive once-daily infusion of redoxivir (158 patients; 200 mg on day 1, followed by 100 mg on days 2-10) or placebo (79 patients) for a period of 10 days. One patient in the placebo group withdrew from the study before receiving treatment. At the same time, all patients in the trial received standard treatment, including lopinavir-ritonavir, interferon, and corticosteroids.
Preliminary study shows no significant clinical improvement in the treatment of new coronary pneumonia patients with redoxive
Strictly trained researchers use a 6-point scale of clinical status (ranging from discharge (score = 1 point) to death (score = 6 points)) to evaluate the time for clinical improvement within 28 days of enrollment. Clinical improvement is defined as an improvement of at least two points compared to the patient&#39;s enrollment rating score.
The study found that there was no statistically significant difference in clinical improvement time between the two groups (the average clinical improvement time in the reduxil group was 21 days, compared to 23 days in the placebo group). A subgroup analysis is also preset in the protocol. Although it is not as important as the main endpoint, it also helps to fully understand the efficacy of the drug. Among patients who received treatment within 10 days of onset, patients receiving Radecivir seemed to recover faster than patients who received placebo (mean clinical improvement time was 18 days vs. 23 days), although there was no statistically significant difference difference.
The study showed that the mortality rate within 28 days after randomization was similar between the two groups, 14% (22/158) in the redoxivir group and 13% (10/78) in the placebo group. However, a subgroup analysis of this secondary endpoint found that the case fatality rate was lower in patients who received Radecivir within 10 days of onset, at 11% (8/71), compared with 15% in the placebo group (7/47), but the difference was not statistically significant.
Similarly, for the duration of invasive mechanical ventilation, this time the end point, although there is no statistically significant difference between the two groups, it can still be seen that the patients receiving Radexivir are shorter than those receiving placebo (average 7 days vs 15.5 days). There was no significant difference between the two groups in terms of oxygen therapy support time, duration of hospitalization, or time to discharge or death.
In addition, compared with placebo, redoxivir treatment did not significantly accelerate the decrease in viral load in upper or lower respiratory specimens (how much SARS-CoV-2 is present in the infected person) or reduce the virus detection rate.
The author emphasizes several limitations of the study, including the fact that the treatment effects of the two groups of patients are not significantly different, and does not exclude the possibility of a certain treatment effect after expanding the number of cases. In addition, in this study, the use of other antiviral drugs or glucocorticoids and other drugs may have an impact on clinical evaluation. Another point is that the test drug is used within 12 days of the onset of symptoms, and the activation time is relatively late. If it can be treated early, it may help reduce virus replication or slow down the disease.
Editor in charge: Zhang Jianli