URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi1031335.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200074

Date : 2020-05-02 19:01:00
Title : Fuch was prevented from testifying as an expert: Anti-epidemic became a tool for party struggle
Ariticle : 
Original title: Truth 丨 Foch blocked by the White House to testify in the House of Representatives
The US House Committee on Appropriations will hold a hearing next week on the government ’s response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. It is planned to summon infectious disease expert Fuch to attend the hearing, but it has been vigorously blocked by the White House.
Evan Hollander, a spokesman for the committee, said on the 1st that White House officials notified on the same day that he refused to allow Fudge to participate in the hearing.
The White House Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere confirmed this.
The White House says it will provide testimony in due course
Judd Deere said on the same day that the government was busy working hard to promote vaccine development, so that people who participated in these jobs appeared at the Congress hearings would be counterproductive.
It is reported that next week Tom Frieden, the former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, will replace Fuchs in the House of Representatives.
CNN reported that although it will not attend the hearing of the US House Appropriations Committee, Foch is expected to testify on the Republican-led Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee on May 12. The chairman of the committee, Lamar Alexander, said he looked forward to hearing the opinions of Dr. Foch and other administrative officials at the second hearing of the Senate Health Committee on May 12.
Foch has repeatedly publicly &quot;confronted&quot; President Trump
Fuch is a well-known American epidemiologist and a key member of the White House Coronavirus Response Working Group. At the White House Epidemic Press Conference, he made various epidemic prevention suggestions to the public, and often publicly &quot;corrected&quot; President Trump&#39;s remarks.
Recently, Trump insisted that states should restart economic activities as soon as possible. Foch believes that unless the virus is controlled, the economy cannot recover; if it is done too quickly, the anti-epidemic efforts will fall short. In an interview with CNN on the 30th, Fawc said: &quot;Some states and some cities are too hasty to restart economic activities.&quot; Foch believes that these areas are creating &quot;significant risks&quot; and &quot;hope they can control any rebound in the epidemic.&quot; On the 1st, Trump said that he generally supported some efforts made by Georgia to restart the economy. Trump said, &quot;I think it&#39;s good. I hope to see us open safely.&quot;
Fuchs also often sings back against Trump on detection issues.
Foch criticized the scale of the new Crest virus detection in the United States at a hearing on the New Crown virus response in the House Committee Oversight Committee in March.
&quot;Medical systems do not have the testing capabilities we need now.&quot; Fudge said at the time. &quot;We must admit that we do not have the capabilities that other countries are doing and that everyone can test.&quot;
And on March 29, Trump wrote on social media, &quot;The only reason why the United States has reported 1 million cases of new coronavirus infections is that our virus testing has done much better than any other country in the world. The country lags far behind us in detection, so there are far fewer cases! &quot;
Before this, Fuch had always been cautious about the anti-epidemic drug hydroxychloroquine that Trump had pushed.
Democratic senator: excuses do not want the public to hear the whole truth
Fawchi was prevented by the White House from attending the United States House of Representatives to testify, and critics said the White House was trying to silence Fawchi.
Senator Chris Van Hollen of the Democratic Party of the United States accused Trump of imposing a &quot;mute order&quot; on Foch.
Van Hollen said on social media, &quot;Will &#39;backfire&#39;? This is his excuse. It means that he doesn&#39;t want the public to hear the whole truth, such as&#39; Don&#39;t inject disinfectant &#39;or&#39; We need more speed Check, Foch is free! &quot;
Expert: Anti-epidemic has become a tool for the US party struggle
Su Xiaohui, deputy director of the Institute of International Strategies of the Chinese Academy of International Studies, said that the recent US House of Representatives plan to investigate the epidemic response is to expose the Trump administration ’s ineffectiveness in the fight against epidemics, and the House Appropriation Committee calling Foch to testify is implementing this task. . Su Xiaohui pointed out that the chairman of the committee, Nita Roy, is a veteran of the Democratic Party, has worked in Congress for more than 30 years, and is a long-term ally with Pelosi. Pelosi has confronted Trump publicly many times, and it is already an open fact.
Su Xiaohui said that the Democratic Party&#39;s choice of Fuchs to testify is to value Fuchs&#39; authority first. A national survey by Quinnipiac University in the United States showed that 78% of Americans recognized their performance. In addition, American media also believe that Foch respects the facts and insists on science. More importantly, Foch dares to speak up to the president&#39;s justice. Therefore, the Democratic Party intends to use Fuchs as a weapon to tear the wounds of the Republican government.
Regarding the White House&#39;s efforts to prevent Fawchi from giving testimony, Su Xiaohui analyzed that the White House knows that if it simply refuses to allow Fawchi to testify, it will expose weaknesses and allow the Democratic Party to use the question. In the face of the Democratic Party&#39;s attack, the White House is dealing with roundabouts and exerting efforts from multiple parties. First, the White House occupies the moral high ground: let the White House spokesperson declare that when the government continues to respond to the epidemic and promote vaccine development, let relevant individuals attend the Congress hearing will be counterproductive; The committee ’s hearing is to gain a home advantage: the committee ’s chairman, Lamar Alexander, played an important role in preventing the Democrats from calling more witnesses during the impeachment of Trump. Fighting: The US President insisted on promoting the economic restart, echoing the populist voices that are emerging in the United States, in order to consolidate support for the government, and indirectly responded to Foch who warned many times not to rush to resume production.
Su Xiaohui said that it is clear that the epidemic has become a new battlefield for the fight between the two parties in the context of the election year. This trend has seriously hindered the domestic efforts to focus on the prevention and control of the epidemic. In addition, in addition to attacking each other, the two parties are still fighting &quot;Who is tougher against China&quot;, interfering with the international cooperation in the fight against epidemic. The consequence is that the common enemy virus has become the winner of the American political struggle.
　　 
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming