URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iircuyvi1235104.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400045

Date : 2020-05-04 10:22:00
Title : Governor of Illinois: Most of the guidance provided by the White House is not helpful
Ariticle : 
Original title: US Governor of Illinois: Most of the guidance provided by the White House is not helpful
[Text / Observer Network Wang Shichun] The New Crown epidemic is rampant in various states in the United States, and the number of diagnoses has exceeded 1.15 million. However, the federal government ’s support for US states is very few, and each state can only &quot;fight for itself&quot;, seeking anti-epidemic materials alone, or even grabbing anti-epidemic materials with other states.
The inaction of the US federal government has caused dissatisfaction among the governors of the states. Illinois Governor Pritzker on Sunday accused the White House of providing guidance to the states for weeks &quot;not helpful&quot;. He hopes that the White House will quickly launch the National Defense Production Act to solve the problem of insufficient detection capabilities of the state&#39;s new crown as soon as possible.
According to a report from the website of The Hill on May 3, Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker accused the White House of the CBS&#39;s &quot;Face the Nation&quot; program on Sunday. The states are &quot;insignificant&quot;, and he said that they have been &quot;not helpful&quot; for several weeks.
Pritzker said on the show: &quot;It&#39;s the governors who accepted the (new crown epidemic) challenge. I talked to my governor colleagues, both the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. We exchanged views on how to ensure people&#39;s safety. (US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) It was helpful to get some guidance there. But for many weeks, much of the guidance we have received from the White House has not helped. &quot;
Pritzker accused President Trump of not quoting the National Defense Production Act. The Democratic governor said that the National Defense Production Act will help states get the materials they need to test new coronaviruses.
Pritzker said: &quot;We need the White House to play a leading role in the National Defense Production Act, help us obtain swabs, help us obtain virus transport media, help us obtain test reagents. However, the White House did not do this.
However, the White House made some promises to Illinois. Governor Pritzker said the White House recently promised to provide 600,000 swabs to Illinois in May. The governor expressed &quot;thank you very much&quot; for this, but it was not enough. A few weeks ago, or last week, the White House told me that we will have enough supplies. There are indeed many medical devices in Illinois, which is correct, but swabs, virus transport media, and testing reagents are still far from enough. The state is still competing with other states to obtain and other necessary supplies.
Pritzker said: &quot;I hope the White House will take action sooner, and I think they still have the opportunity to do so on the issue of reagents (lack of). The White House said last month that we would not lack supplies,&quot;
However, Pritzker expressed optimism at the end of the show against the prospects of epidemic disease. He said that the number of new crown cases has begun to stabilize and the state has begun to prepare for contact tracking. Contact tracing, like detection, is also essential to prevent the second round of outbreaks of this new coronavirus. His state will &quot;overcome this difficulty,&quot; and he expects Illinois to be able to conduct tens of thousands of additional tests this summer.
He said: &quot;We are preparing for the reopening of the economy.&quot;
According to the Global New Coronary Pneumonia Data Real-Time Statistics System released by Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of 9 pm EST on May 3, the cumulative number of diagnoses in Illinois was 61,449, with a total of 2618 deaths.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern