URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9579156.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300002

Date : 2020-05-02 22:14:00
Title : Study: Compared with home isolation, Chinese-style centralized isolation can reduce new crown infection by 37%
Ariticle : 
Original title: Research: Compared with home isolation, Chinese-style centralized isolation can reduce new crown infection by 37%
In the absence of new coronary pneumonia vaccines, non-pharmacological interventions such as physical isolation and epidemiological investigations are still important means of controlling the epidemic.
Recently, an international medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot; published an online article entitled &quot;Institutional, not home-based, isolation could contain the COVID-19 outbreak&quot;, which compares the home isolation adopted by most European and American countries and China. The impact of centralized isolation on the spread of the new crown epidemic. The article found that centralized segregation can better reduce family and community transmission.
The authors of this study came from the Suriford School of Public Health at the National University of Singapore and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
The article points out that the key to Wuhan ’s successful prevention and control of the new crown epidemic is that confirmed cases are immediately quarantined in a dedicated isolation place regardless of symptoms; in most European countries and the United States, only confirmed patients with severe symptoms can be admitted to the hospital, and mild patients Ask to isolate yourself at home.
To compare the effectiveness of the two isolation methods to prevent and control the epidemic, the author uses the respiratory disease simulation model GeoDEMOS-R to estimate the total number of infections through factors such as time, social distance, school closure, and urban population.
They take a city with a population of 4 million as an example, assuming that the basic infection number R0 is 2, and the time is the first 4 weeks of the outbreak. Through model simulations, the authors of the article found that, compared with the baseline without prevention and control measures, household isolation can postpone the peak of the outbreak by 8 days and reduce 7100 infections during the peak period, and reduce 190,000 infections during the entire outbreak cycle; while centralized isolation It can postpone the peak of the epidemic by 18 days and reduce 18900 infections during the peak period, reducing 546000 infections during the entire epidemic cycle. Compared with household isolation, which can reduce infection cases by 20%, centralized isolation can reduce infection cases by about 57%.
The author of the article accordingly pointed out that centralized segregation is needed to reduce family and community transmission. They also believe that the above findings provide a theoretical basis for Wuhan&#39;s shelter hospital. &quot;These shelters provide triage, basic medical care, regular monitoring, rapid referrals, and provide the necessary life and social activities for isolated patients.&quot;
&quot;Crucially, the shelter eliminates the risk of transmission in most households, and this risk often occurs because the viral load of mildly infected people may be high. Family isolation that relies on personal compliance will inevitably lead to Increased spread. &quot;
The author of the article urges countries with heavy medical burdens to take preventive measures by referring to centralized isolation. &quot;Although cities in Europe and the United States may not be able to establish temporary segregation centers similar to Wuhan, other strategies such as readjusting the use of hotels and dormitories may be considered to reduce the spread.&quot;
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming