URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1446600.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500058

Date : 2020-05-05 17:46:00
Title : Global Times Press Review: Global scientists quickly shook their heads, and Washington played it down
Ariticle : 
Original title: # 环球 时 报社 评 # Global scientists quickly shook their heads, and Washington played it down
US Secretary of State Pompeo recently publicized high-profile evidence that there is “a lot of evidence” that the new coronavirus came from a laboratory in Wuhan, which violated the general consensus of the world scientific community and was quickly questioned. The WHO said that the existing 15,000 new coronavirus gene sequences all indicate that this virus is from nature. Fuch, the most famous epidemiologist in the United States, publicly stated that he did not believe the virus came from the Wuhan laboratory There is no scientific basis.
The Trump team, including Pompeo, is openly lying, trying to mislead American and world opinion. The WHO has proposed that the United States share the evidence they have, but Washington clearly cannot. CNN reported that intelligence officials of the &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; revealed that the U.S. government&#39;s allegations against Wuhan Laboratory have gone beyond what the intelligence can support.
It is a strange thing for the US government to promote a rumor of virus origin, because for the world, the current priority is to control the epidemic, and then achieve a safe recovery of the economy. This is a huge challenge. The origin of the virus was originally a scientist&#39;s business. However, &quot;the emperor is not in a hurry to eunuchs.&quot;
This is not a question of how brave the American government is, but a matter of ignoring everything in order to fight for elections. Scientists do n’t buy Washington ’s accused Wuhan laboratory, which makes Pompeo and the White House very shameful, but what can they do? What the White House needs most now is to increase the confrontation between the American people and China. They believe that the higher the degree of this opposition, the higher the chance that voters will give up to pursue their ineffectiveness in the fight against epidemics.
Therefore, Pompeo and others really want to perform to the American public, especially Republican supporters. In the highly divided political environment of the United States, supporters often tend to believe what the Trump administration says. Rumors can also produce &quot;good results&quot;, and politicians such as Pompeo are convinced of this.
However, Pompeo and others are likely to break this time. Scientists around the world have unanimously opposed the US government&#39;s dissemination of &quot;conspiracy theories&quot; against the Wuhan laboratory, allowing the US government to fully expose the political purpose of the investigation of the origin of the epidemic. In the scientific community and the intellectual community, it is clear at a glance what the Trump administration is busy with and what it is pursuing.
Once the Trump administration completely loses the support of the scientific community, their distorted narratives of the US and global epidemics will face increasing political risks. The day they can&#39;t play the tricks against the common people, in worse cases, they may also face catastrophic accountability.
We do n’t know if this will be a lesson for the Trump team: There is no limitless space for discrediting China. When they go too far and overconsumptively spoil China, the facts themselves have the power to rebound.
It is ridiculous to replace the political evaluation of the anti-epidemic performance of governments of various countries with the scientific problem of virus origin. Washington&#39;s use of framing China to serve domestic elections is doomed. The more extreme the Trump team goes in this regard, the more likely it is that they will ultimately put themselves in danger.
China did its best. President Trump praised China&#39;s efforts to control the epidemic on January 25 after the closure of Wuhan. He expressed that the United States appreciates China&#39;s efforts and transparency. His attitude was maintained for quite a long time. Until the United States became the new epicenter of the epidemic due to its own reasons, the White House faced accountability, and its attitude toward China turned 180 degrees. The Republican Party took the wrong path of using the dumping pot as the main strategy for elections.
However, the global scientific community is not the United States government&#39;s royal team. The gene sequence of the new coronavirus will speak. More evidence will be formed in the subsequent outbreak, which will make Washington pay for its lies.
Editor in charge: Zhang Jianli