URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/o/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9801114.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500006

Date : 2020-05-04 14:10:00
Title : American media article: Masks become a new symbol of American political differences
Ariticle : 
Original title: American media article: Masks become a new symbol of American political differences
Reference News Network reported on May 4 that the United States ’&quot; Political News &quot;website published on May 1 entitled&quot; People wearing masks are self-righteous liberals, while those who refuse to wear masks are reckless Republicans-welcome to the latest party in Washington The article &quot;Confrontation&quot; by Ryan Liza and Daniel Lipman. The article points out that masks have become a new symbol of political and cultural differences in the United States. The content of the article is excerpted as follows:
In the 1960s, protesters burned bras. By 2020, they may soon burn their masks.
Views on how to respond to the coronavirus epidemic have become increasingly polarized. The left has almost unanimously supported the sacrifice of so-called &quot;personal freedom&quot; in exchange for containment of the spread of the virus. The right wing disagrees, and is more willing to attack various regulations on travel and wearing protective equipment for the conservative activist camp that has huge influence on social media and Fox News Channel.
Masks have become the ultimate symbol of this new cultural and political division.
For progressive people, the mask becomes a sign that you are serious about the epidemic and willing to make personal sacrifices to save lives. Celebrities who do n’t wear masks are considered ashamed and exposed to Twitter by leftists. For the right wing, masks are often regarded as overreacting to the coronavirus epidemic, and the promotion of wearing masks is a laughing stock. It shows that in the heavily polarized United States, almost anything can be politicized and become a tribal subordinate Relationship sign.
When Mike Pence visited the Mayo Clinic without wearing a mask, the split became apparent. Photos taken at the event site showed that doctors and patients around the vice president who were not wearing masks wore &quot;face masks.&quot; This report became the headline news on the cable news channel. The liberal host denounced Pence for setting a bad example and acting recklessly. Conservative presenters criticized the left wing&#39;s fascination with masks as another example of a &quot;nanny government.&quot;
But the voice supporting the mask won, at least temporarily. On April 30, Pence put on a surgical mask while visiting a ventilator factory in Indiana.
In Washington, wearing masks has become a matter of profound political significance and difficulty in unification. In early April, when the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) first announced that Americans should wear cloth &quot;face masks&quot; (because there was still a shortage of surgical masks at the time), Trump immediately bluntly expressed his disinterest.
Trump said at the White House briefing on April 3: &quot;As for wearing a mask, this is a voluntary matter. You can wear it, but you don&#39;t have to wear it. I will choose not to wear it. This may be beneficial. This It ’s just a suggestion, it ’s purely voluntary. ”
This disagreement clearly extends to the first family. When Melania Trump and Ivanka Trump disagree with the president, they occasionally like to give subtle hints. Sure enough, shortly after Trump said he would not wear a mask, both Melania and Ivanka posted pictures of themselves on social media to promote the benefits of covering up their faces.
When the reporter visited the White House, he would be shocked that so many people did not wear masks. Agents in the Secret Service rarely wear masks. On some days, even staff who take temperature measurements for journalists do not wear masks. In contrast, most media reporters wear some kind of face covering when they are in the media work area or waiting for an interview with the president. But very few reporters wear face coverings at TV briefings.
The White House is relatively a world without masks. At a recent meeting in which the White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and about 20 other White House officials participated, none of the White House staff wore masks or other facial coverings.
There are a few exceptions in the West Wing of the White House. As previously reported on the &quot;Political News&quot; website, deputy national security adviser Matthew Portinger sometimes wears masks. Maybe he knew something. His wife was a CDC microbiologist.
Pence claimed that because he was regularly tested, he did not put a mask on when he visited the Mayo Clinic and did not put anyone at risk. The opposite argument is that the clinic requires all visitors to wear masks, and Pence&#39;s indifference to this policy is detrimental to encouraging public health campaigns to wear masks.
But others used Peng Si&#39;s news photos without masks as some kind of political declaration. Perhaps this is a display of power and authority: I do n’t have to wear a mask because I can be tested regularly. In this sense, being close to people without covering their faces is a new status symbol of the epidemic era; or maybe this is some kind of expression that pleases the pro-Trump camp who has always been skeptical about the epidemic response .
The release of this moral signal seems to have spread to Capitol Hill. According to the &quot;Police&quot; website, when voting on the latest outbreak of aid package, about 12 Republicans refused to wear masks in the House of Representatives. One of the representatives who did not wear a mask was Texas Republican Chip Roe. Yi, he said that he was not making some kind of ideological declaration, but because the seat arrangement of the parliamentarians in the venue &quot;opened the distance&quot;, so there was no need to cover the face.
Mask differences are penetrating the decision-making field. With the support of the Flight Attendant Staff Association, Congressional Democrats have been advocating a campaign to force the wearing of masks on airplanes, which the Trump administration has always opposed. In the absence of mandatory regulations, airlines such as Delta, the United States, United, JetBlue and Borderland have recently adopted policies requiring passengers to wear masks.
On May 3, in New York, the United States staff distributed masks to citizens in a park. Xinhua News Agency
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming