URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1066679.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300035

Date : 2020-05-03 05:02:00
Title : Bell of People&#39;s Daily: It is a shame of civilization to pursue blame for farce
Ariticle : 
Original title: Claiming farce is a shame of civilization (bells)
——Making rumours against China ’s anti-epidemic is contrary to international justice (3)
The political manipulation of some people in the United States has both slipped out of the moral bottom line and deviated from the course of human nature. Blatantly trampled on the sovereignty of other countries and undermined international rule of law with hegemony, completely trampled on the international morality recognized worldwide
Some politicians in the United States regard the battlefield against the new crown pneumonia epidemic as a political show. First, there are chatter about the politicization and stigmatization of the epidemic, and then there are indiscriminate claims for accountability. A big country claiming to be &quot;international leadership&quot; has performed political scandals one after another, which has shocked people and people of insight all over the world. Some American media pointed out that at the present time, the international community&#39;s joint efforts to prevent and control the epidemic situation is the overall situation, saving lives is a big task, and cooperative anti-epidemic is the general trend. What is the conscience of changing focus? It is a matter of course to destroy cooperation!
The US has publicly stated that it &quot;very appreciates China&#39;s efforts and transparency.&quot; &quot;The data shared by China will help the US fight the epidemic.&quot; The words were still in my ears, and the words changed dramatically overnight, and my attitude reversed. The conclusion is that some American politicians think that they can get rid of their responsibilities and put on the emperor&#39;s new clothes? The &quot;Best Practice Principles for Virus Naming&quot; jointly developed by the World Health Organization and other international organizations clearly stipulates that country name and place name discrimination cannot be carried out, and some politicians in the United States flagrantly violated it, calling the new crown virus &quot;Chinese virus&quot; and &quot;Wuhan virus&quot;. The international community generally praises China for making huge contributions to the world with its huge sacrifices, but some American politicians are keen to gang up and extortion.
This is a blatant challenge to international jurisprudence. The rules of national sovereign immunity in international law clearly stipulate that the behavior and property of a country are not subject to the legislative, judicial and administrative jurisdiction of other countries. Moreover, the epidemic of a large-scale epidemic is a public health event in the world and is legally considered as “force majeure”; China first reported the epidemic, but where the virus came from needs science to answer. Facts have proved that there is no causal relationship between China&#39;s epidemic prevention and epidemic prevention and the large-scale outbreak in the United States. Even Jimena Kettner, a former international law adviser to the United States Department of State, could n’t stand it. She said: “Any professional who has some practical working knowledge of the foreign sovereign immunity law, just look at the title of these lawsuits and you will immediately find the US courts. There is no basis for jurisdiction. &quot;Seeing that the litigation is about to be aborted, some US lawmakers have come up with the idea of formulating an exception bill for the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act. Lee Brimeyer, a professor of international law at Yale Law School in the United States, called this performance &quot;the last effort made in response to the political situation,&quot; while Kimena Kettner simply called it a &quot;nightmare.&quot;
China reported the epidemic first, which does not mean that the new coronavirus originated in China. The source of the virus is a serious scientific problem that can only be left to scientists and medical experts for research. How can some American politicians draw conclusions with their crazy imagination. In order to achieve their political goals, they randomly imagined the time of China ’s epidemic from crazy logic. This kind of presumption based on political needs rather than facts, even the authoritative infectious disease experts in the United States made it clear that they could not recognize this The accusation is &quot;inconsistent with the facts&quot;. The internationally accepted fact is that China has responded and notified the epidemic in an open, transparent, timely, and responsible manner from beginning to end. WHO praised &quot;the speed and scale of China&#39;s actions are rare in the world.&quot; China ’s nationwide participation in the war and national action have built a strong regional defense. Ignoring the facts and fabricating data, the political manipulation of some people in the United States has slipped out of the moral bottom line and deviated from the track of human nature.
The US media reported that the White House National Security Council had formulated key points of conversation, instigating US officials to blame the epidemic on China; the US Republican election department wrote a 57-page &quot;lie red book&quot; to teach the party ’s candidates to discredit the epidemic China. Tom Ginsberg, a professor of international law at the University of Chicago in the United States, broke the mystery. The lawsuit against China was to &quot;cover up the mistakes of the US government&quot; and to provide political support for the elections faced by the Republican Party in November this year.
Blatantly trampled on the sovereignty of other countries and undermined the international rule of law with hegemony, completely trampled on the international morality recognized worldwide! David Stewart, a law professor at Georgetown University in the United States, is deeply worried: &quot;All those who sue China should reflect on, &#39;Wait, will we be prosecuted?&#39;&quot; People cannot help asking, the Spanish flu started in the United States How to blame for the huge humanitarian disaster? AIDS first appeared in the United States. Who should compensate 75 million AIDS-infected people and 35 million AIDS-related deaths worldwide? The 2008 international financial crisis began on Wall Street. When will the United States compensate trillions of dollars in economic losses worldwide?
People also have the right to question. &quot;E-cigarette pneumonia&quot; broke out in the United States in August 2019. Why is the CT image of the lung similar to that of the lung caused by the new coronavirus? What happened to the US military base in Fort Detrick? In the United States, someone died of new coronary pneumonia on February 6th, and there is no history of Chinese travel. When was the earliest new coronary pneumonia case discovered in the United States? In the United States, which has always advertised free speech, scientists have disclosed the research results of the new coronavirus. Scientists from China and Europe have published a number of new coronavirus gene sequencing traceability results. As the number one power in the field of biological gene research, why the United States has been afraid to publish the results? ... To these question marks in the hearts of the world, some American politicians cannot pretend to be deaf and dumb and must answer.
WHO Director-General Tan Desai warned that using the epidemic to obtain political scores is like playing with fire. &quot;If you don&#39;t want to see more body bags, you must stop politicizing the epidemic.&quot; Advising some American politicians to listen to the advice of a civilized world, and to pursue the slapstick claim farce will continue to act, and will only be disgraced and help themselves.
Editor in charge: Zhu Jiabei