URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9401880.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100064

Date : 2020-05-01 15:34:00
Title : Britain finally survived the peak of the epidemic and continued to &quot;walk the tightrope&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original title: Britain finally survived the peak of the epidemic, Germany and Italy continue to &quot;tightrope&quot;
Reporter | An Jing
The United Kingdom, promoted to the second highest number of deaths in the European new crown, finally passed the peak of the epidemic. At the first press conference held after his recovery, the British Prime Minister Johnson announced that he would relax restrictive measures and restart the economic setting plan next week.
Germany, which is regarded as a model for European anti-epidemic disease, will further relax restrictive measures after opening some shops in the water test. However, German Chancellor Angela Merkel continued to sound the alarm, reminding that once the vigilance is relaxed, there will be a second wave of outbreak risk.
The epidemic situation in Italy, which is the hardest hit area, has continued to improve, but Italian Prime Minister Conte criticized the resumption of work measures of some regional governments as too radical, placing the country at risk. For the first time, France published a map of the epidemic, calling on the public to stay at home.
　　
According to BBC News and Reuters reports on April 30, Johnson announced at the press conference that day: &quot;I can confirm for the first time today that we have passed the peak of the epidemic and are currently on the downhill.
The United Kingdom has surpassed Spain, becoming the second country with the largest cumulative death toll in Europe, after Italy.
According to statistics from Johns Hopkins University, as of 10 a.m. Beijing time on the 1st of May, 26,842 people have died in the UK and 172,481 cases have been confirmed. Spain, the number one diagnosed in Europe, has accumulated 24,543 deaths and a total of 213,435 diagnoses.
The British government ’s chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, pointed out that the value of the current outbreak infection rate R in the UK has fallen below 1 to 0.6 to 0.9. It means that only one person can be infected per confirmed patient.
Johnson said that although the UK is finally able to &quot;see the sun&quot;, the infection rate must be kept below 1 to avoid the second wave of &quot;catastrophic&quot; outbreaks.
The British government will make plans for resuming work and relaxing restrictive measures next week. Johnson said that out of epidemiological considerations and to make people returning to work more confident, wearing masks will &quot;help&quot; the next stage of the epidemic response.
The British government previously said there was insufficient evidence to show that masks could slow the spread of the virus. The Scottish government has advised people to cover their mouths and noses when shopping and taking public transportation.
In this epidemic, the time taken by the British government to take action lags far behind other European countries. The United Kingdom implemented the &quot;closure of the city&quot; on March 23, but as early as the 13th, WHO has declared that Europe is the epicenter of the epidemic.
The government&#39;s previous goal was to achieve the target of 100,000 tests per day by the end of April, but currently the number of tests per day in the UK is around 80,000.
Since Johnson was discharged from the hospital, the opposition Labor Party began to question the slowness of the government&#39;s initial actions. Regarding the voice of doubt, Johnson emphasized that if there is no government action, the death toll will be even higher.
As authorities began to retrospect the number of deaths in nursing homes and homes, the number of new deaths in the UK has increased sharply in recent weeks. Some analysis speculates that the actual peak of the UK epidemic situation occurred on April 8.
　　
While the United Kingdom is preparing a plan to resume work, Germany is ready to further relax restrictive measures and open playgrounds, museums, churches, zoos, and botanical gardens starting next Monday.
On Thursday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel held talks with the governors of 16 states on the epidemic response measures. The states agreed to remain cautious and postpone the discussion of when to open schools and nurseries until May 6.
Merkel said the government will need more time to assess the impact of loosening restrictive measures.
She warned that once the public relaxes their vigilance, Germany will face the risk of a second wave of epidemic peaks. &quot;If the curve rises again, we need to have a warning system to detect in advance and take timely action.&quot;
WHO previously reminded countries to relax the restrictive measures two weeks before they can see the impact.
Denmark was one of the first European countries to relax restrictions. It opened schools and kindergartens two weeks ago, followed by barber shops, beauty shops and tattoo shops.
The Danish Serum Institute pointed out on Thursday that the rate of new coronavirus infection in Denmark has rebounded since the restrictions were relaxed. The infection rate on April 14 was 0.6, and it has climbed to 0.9 last week.
Also cautious is Italy.
Recently, the epidemic in Italy has continued to improve. On April 30, Italy added 4,693 cured cases, with a total of 75,945 cured cases. The number of cured cases in a single day was the highest since the outbreak.
Borelli, head of the Italian Civil Protection Department, revealed that there are 101,551 confirmed cases in Italy, a decrease of 3,106 compared with the previous day. Among the existing confirmed cases, 1694 were severe cases, which declined for the 27th consecutive day.
Borelli also said that since the epidemic has entered a new stage, the civil protection department will not hold a daily press conference on the epidemic notification in the future, but the epidemic statistics will be updated daily.
At present, the infection rate of New Coronavirus in Italy is between 0.5 and 0.7. The government has announced the partial lifting of the &quot;closure of the city&quot; on May 4, restaurants will resume takeaway services, and construction and manufacturing can resume.
Seeing that the closure is imminent, Italian Prime Minister Conte criticized some regional governments&#39; radical measures in his parliamentary speech on Thursday.
On Thursday, southern Calabria allows bars and restaurants to open, and customers can eat outside. Some shops and restaurants in the northern Veneto region will open on Monday.
Conte accused these measures of violating national regulations as &quot;illegal.&quot; He warned that such a move from &quot;all closed&quot; to &quot;all open&quot; immediately would make Italy&#39;s fight against the epidemic fall short.
The cumulative number of confirmed cases is second only to the United Kingdom, and France released its first epidemic map on Thursday.
The map comprehensively considers the two standards of virus transmission activity and hospital intensive care pressure degree, and divides the French epidemic situation into three categories of red, orange and green, with red being the most serious.
The map shows that currently 35 French provinces are in red, accounting for about 34.6% of the 101 French provinces.
French Minister of Health Vilan warned when publishing the map that this map will not change the current home order in France: &quot;There is no doubt that we still need to close the city and stay at home until May 11.&quot;
Starting May 11, France plans to open primary schools, shops and food markets. Depending on the severity of the epidemic, the degree of relaxation of restrictions in different provinces will vary.
Statistics released by Eurostat on April 30 show that the unemployment rate in the euro zone rose to 7.4% in March this year.
In addition, in the first quarter of this year, the GDP of 19 countries in the euro zone fell by 3.8%, the largest decline since the establishment of the euro zone in 1999.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yiling