URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9448331.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200013

Date : 2020-05-02 00:26:00
Title : The woman will be handsome! The State Council supervision team has arrived in Heilongjiang
Ariticle : 
Original title: The female will be handsome! The State Council supervision team has arrived in Heilongjiang
Source: Beijing Youth Daily
Writer | Yu Hui
The political circle noted that on the day of the May 1 holiday, the supervision team dispatched by the State Council had arrived in Heilongjiang, led by Yu Yanhong, a member of the party group of the National Health and Health Commission and secretary of the party group of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
According to the &quot;Heilongjiang Daily&quot; disclosure, on the afternoon of May 1, Zhang Qingwei, Secretary of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee, met in Harbin with a supervision team dispatched by the joint defense and control mechanism of the State Council led by Yu Yanhong.
Just returned to Beijing and went to Heilongjiang
Yu Yanhong, female, Han nationality, born in October 1962, 58 years old, born in Shaoyang, Hunan, joined the Communist Party of China in September 1993, joined the work in August 1983, graduate degree, medical doctor, professor, chief physician, hundreds of thousands in the new century Candidate for National Talent Project.
Yu Yanhong is a typical expert official.
The resume shows that Yu Yanhong has been working in Southern Medical University for a long time. He has served as the vice president of Southern Hospital Affiliated to Southern Medical University, vice president and president of Southern Medical University.
In January 2018, Yu Yanhong served as the vice governor of Guangdong Province and entered Beijing in June of that year.
The official website shows that she is currently a member of the Party Group of the National Health and Health Commission, Secretary of the Party Group and Deputy Director of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, and is responsible for women and children&#39;s health and the management of Chinese medicine.
In the course of the fight against the epidemic, Yu Yanhong was also a member of the Central Steering Group in Hubei.
In the past period of time, Yu Yanhong appeared many times at the press conference held by the State Council Office in Hubei to introduce relevant information.
For example, at the press conference on March 23, she said that 74,187 people diagnosed with new coronary pneumonia in the country used traditional Chinese medicine, accounting for 91.5%, of which 61,449 people in Hubei Province used traditional Chinese medicine, accounting for 90.6%. Observation of clinical efficacy shows that the total effective rate of traditional Chinese medicine has reached more than 90%.
On April 27, with the approval of General Secretary Xi Jinping and the Party Central Committee, Sun Chunlan, member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Vice Premier of the State Council, led the Central Steering Group to return to Beijing.
Only 3 days after returning to Beijing, Yu Yanhong left Beijing and led the supervision team to work in Heilongjiang.
In the morning, the supervision team met with the provincial party secretary in the afternoon
On April 30, high-level officials released the news that they would send a supervision team to Heilongjiang.
On the same day, Li Keqiang, member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, the Premier of the State Council, and the Central Leading Group for Response to the New Coronary Pneumonia Outbreak, chaired the meeting of the leading group.
The meeting mentioned that the joint prevention and control mechanism of the State Council set up a liaison group to understand and coordinate the promotion of epidemic prevention and control in Hubei Province and Wuhan City. Qi short board, especially to strengthen hospital infection prevention and control, go all out to do a good job in medical treatment. All localities should take the warning and strictly implement effective prevention and control measures as required. &quot;
Zhi Zhijun noted that after the meeting, all work progressed very quickly.
On May 1, the State Council ’s Comprehensive Team for the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemic Situation informed the country about the clustered epidemic situation of new pneumonia in Heilongjiang Province. In the afternoon, the supervision team appeared in Heilongjiang.
Zheng Zhijun noted that on May 1, the Secretary of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee also went to Xiangfang District of Harbin City to supervise and inspect the epidemic prevention and control work.
On the same day, Wang Wentao, Governor of Heilongjiang, hosted a regular video conference in Daqing.
The meeting emphasized that the overseas imported cases in Harbin and Mudanjiang were associated with local epidemic outbreaks, which had bad effects and painful lessons, and brought new pressure on the nation to consolidate the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements.
It is necessary to profoundly reflect on the bulletin and point out that we have inadequate understanding of the epidemic prevention and control situation, the weak links in the pre-hospital prevention and control measures, the failure to carry out the nucleic acid testing in a timely manner, and the poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures.
According to the disclosure, the chiefs of the Heilongjiang Provincial Health Committee, Harbin and Mudanjiang Prevention and Control Headquarters, and Harbin Medical University made a speech at the meeting.
&quot;Hope that the supervision team will help us find shortcomings&quot;
According to local media reports, during the meeting on the afternoon of the 1st, Zhang Qingwei introduced the province&#39;s epidemic prevention and treatment work.
Zhang Qingwei said, &quot;The central leadership&#39;s meeting of the New Coronary Pneumonia Outbreak Working Group decided to send a steering group to Heilongjiang Province, which fully embodies the great importance attached by the Party Central Committee and the State Council to our province&#39;s epidemic prevention and control work, and points out the direction for us to fight the epidemic. &quot;
He stated that:
Our province will learn lessons deeply, turn pressure into motivation, be cautious and do a good job in all aspects of epidemic prevention and control, check the loopholes and make up for shortcomings, strengthen hospital infection prevention and control, and go all out to do medical treatment Strengthen the construction of the traffic control team, enhance the prevention and control capabilities of border ports, improve the normalized control mechanism, and create a good and stable epidemic prevention and control environment for the convening of the &quot;two sessions.&quot;
Zhang Qingwei also mentioned that he hopes that the supervision team will help our province find shortcomings and provide more valuable opinions. We will resolutely grasp the rectification and implementation.
Yu Yanhong said that the supervision team will earnestly implement the important instructions of General Secretary Jin Ping and the requirements of the Central Leading Group for the response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. 1. Make up for the shortcomings, constantly improve the normalized prevention and control capabilities, and promote Heilongjiang Province to win the tough battle of external defense input and internal defense rebound.
Information | Heilongjiang Daily Xinhua News Agency, etc.
Editor in charge: Liu Guangbo