URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iircuyvi1208352.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400020

Date : 2020-05-04 07:30:00
Title : Global Times commentary: Pompeo lied more &quot;fearlessly&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original title: Social commentary: Pompeio lied even more &quot;fearless&quot;
US Secretary of State Pompeo declared in an interview with the ABC on the 3rd that &quot;there is a lot of evidence&quot; that the new coronavirus came from a laboratory in Wuhan. He further bluntly said, &quot;China has a history of infecting the world,&quot; and &quot;history of substandard laboratories.&quot; The US Secretary of State is performing an amazing performance.
Pompeo said that he has a lot of evidence for this accusation, and we solemnly ask him to show the evidence to the world, especially to the American people he wants to fool. Of course he couldn&#39;t come up with that kind of evidence. He knew best that he was lying.
The US government is launching a propaganda offensive with rare force, trying to disturb the clear picture of the current global anti-epidemic. The biggest task of anti-epidemic is to control the epidemic, reduce deaths, and restore the economy on this basis. The US government is doing one of the worst in the world in both respects, so they highlight the origin of the virus and try to refocus public opinion as the U.S. elections approach.
The origin of the virus is a serious scientific issue. So far no famous scientist has accused the Wuhan Virus Research Institute of leaking the virus. At the request of the President, US intelligence agencies are now the most investigative &quot;investigators&quot;, and at the same time, it is the US Secretary of State who claims to have &quot;a lot of evidence&quot; in this regard. In this way, a scientific problem becomes a chain of attacks driven by politics, intelligence feeding, and diplomatic charges. Such operations are not only anti-scientific, but also dirty and a blatant fool of the public.
If Washington really has evidence, it should let American research institutions and scientists speak out. Although there is no evidence, they are convinced that this lie can be rounded up. They can let the intelligence agencies stand up and make a detailed report public. They obviously couldn&#39;t do both, so the politician Pompeo directly raised his microphone and shouted &quot;There is a lot of evidence&quot; to the world.
Combining such inferior lies can only be sold in the United States and the West with the help of anti-China ideology, by manipulating the public opinion tools of the United States and the West, and using American political power to forcefully promote proliferation.
Scientists in the United States are silent, and politicians such as the Secretary of State rushed to the front line accusing China Wuhan Virus Research Institute of leaking the virus. The logic distortion is too obvious. To cover up this big loophole, Pompeo ’s trick was to attack the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese political system, inciting the political hostility of some people in the United States and the West to China, so as to weaken people ’s resentment against him, even knowing he was lying Not to be held accountable.
All of this is first and foremost in keeping with the US elections, and Pompeo can also be regarded as &quot;relentless&quot;, at the expense of his feathers to protect the victory of President Trump and the Republican Party. The death toll in the United States has reached 66,700, and the White House has reduced the death toll from 60,000 to 100,000. In this case, restarting the economy will also be risky. This winter is likely to be the new peak of the US epidemic, and a presidential vote will be held in November. If it is not possible for most American voters to hate China, how will President Trump achieve re-election?
Some time ago, Washington focused on China to &quot;hide the epidemic.&quot; This allegation is increasingly untenable, because a large number of public facts and new disclosures show that the White House seriously ignored warnings from all parties in the early stage of the epidemic, and it is difficult to escape the responsibility for malfeasance . Now the US government has adjusted the focus of the attack to the Wuhan Virus Research Institute and made brutal requests to investigate the institute, which is more conducive to creating long-term controversy and focus and further diverting American anger and attention to China.
Pompeo, as Secretary of State&#39;s banner against China, can attract enough public attention to effectively achieve the guidance of public opinion that Washington wants. For these American politicians, there is no such thing as facts and morals, as long as they can win the election, everything is 100%. Once the public focused on the White House&#39;s responsibility for defeating the epidemic, and lost the election, everything was reduced to zero.
That&#39;s why Pompeo jumped out without the cooperation of scientists and even the shrinking of intelligence officers, and performed a performance disproportionate to the chief US diplomat. It is completely foreseeable that this politician who has no bottom line will have more exaggerated and shameless movements for the rhythm.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu