URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1445200.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500062

Date : 2020-05-05 15:51:00
Title : The earliest infection time of New Coronavirus in many countries is ahead of schedule. Where is the source?
Ariticle : 
Original title: The earliest infection time of New Coronavirus in many countries is ahead of schedule. Where is the source?
(Health Times reporter Lv Lin Wang Zhenya Zhang Meng) On May 4, local time, Guan Yulian, a member of the Canadian and British Royal Academy of Internal Medicine and the Canadian Medical Experts Coordination Committee to Fight New Coronavirus, said in an interview with the media that the earliest infection time in the United States may be in October last year. month. On May 3, local time, Yves Cohen, head of the critical care department at two hospitals in the province of Seine-Saint-Denis in northern Paris, France, said that at least the end of December last year, there have been confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia.
The first case refers to the earliest case that meets the case definition in an outbreak. It is the starting point that can be traced to the entire outbreak, but it is not necessarily the earliest source of infection in the previous outbreak, because the outbreak investigation is subject to environment, personnel and society The influence and constraints of factors are often difficult to find the source of infection. Even the first case is difficult to finalize in some cases.
The global outbreak of the new crown epidemic, where did the earliest infection occur? This is a problem that all countries are looking for. However, it is very difficult to find and verify the earliest cases. A few days ago, experts from the United States, France, Italy and other countries pointed out that the detection time of new coronavirus infection cases has been advanced again.
United States: The earliest infection time may be in October last year
In May 4th, local time, Guan Yulian, a member of the Canadian and British Royal Academy of Internal Medicine and director of the Canadian Medical Experts Coordination Committee to Fight New Crown Virus, said in an interview with the media that the earliest infection in the United States may be in October last year.
An official from Santa Clara County, Northern California, USA, disclosed on April 21 local time that the three bodies that had been dissected by the coroner recently had flu-like symptoms during their lifetime. He died at home on the 6th. Anatomy revealed that the three dead were all infected with the new coronavirus. Sara Cody, a public health official in the area, said that the results of the anatomy of the bodies of the three deceased persons showed that when they died, the local community is believed to have spread widely.
&quot;Washington Post&quot; quoted the local health chief&#39;s statement as saying, &quot;California&#39;s three patients who died of the new corona virus have not been to China.&quot; The investigation found that the new crown epidemic in the United States occurred much earlier than the official time . The head of the local health department said that if the incubation period of the new coronavirus is three to four weeks, the infection chain on the west coast of the United States will begin in early January or mid-January, instead of February 29, the first official death of the patient.
France: Cases may have appeared at the end of December last year
On May 3, local time, Yves Cohen, head of the critical care department at two hospitals in the province of Seine-Saint-Denis in northern Paris, France, said that at least the end of December last year, there have been confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia. His team found that one of the COVID-19 showed a positive reaction when re-testing the serological test samples of pneumonia patients collected between December and January last year.
This patient was hospitalized in Jean Vidière Hospital on December 27 last year. I have no travel history, I do not know how I was infected, and I have not been in contact with other suspected cases other than her wife. The patient infected his two children, but his wife was not ill. It is not clear whether it is an asymptomatic infected person or not infected at all. At present, the patient and his family have returned to health.
“The place where the epidemic was first discovered is not directly related to the source of the virus.” Zhang Yafei, a second-level investigator of the Shenzhen Health and Health Commission, explained that although Wuhan, China was the earliest area to report and handle the epidemic, that is, the earliest area to detect and handle the outbreak The representative is the earliest outbreak area. If you do not report and do not dispose after the outbreak, it does not mean that there is no outbreak.
The Pasteur Institute performed gene sequencing and comparison of 97 French new coronavirus samples collected from January 24 to March 24, and compared with 338 viral gene sequences released by the Global Influenza Data Initiative Analyze and establish the virus evolution tree map. Through a comparative study, it was found that the new coronavirus popular in France comes from the clade of a virus that has been circulating in the country.
Italy: Doctors saw the virus last October
In Italy, which currently ranks third in the world in terms of number of diagnoses, some doctors said that &quot;the virus was seen in October, November, and December.&quot; Giuseppe Remuzzi, a well-known Italian medical expert, said that the earliest Some family doctors have carefully discovered that the severe pneumonia they are exposed to is different from ordinary flu. They saw this virus in October, November, and December, so this virus has been around for a long time. &quot;This means that before we knew of the outbreak in China, the virus had already spread at least in northern Lombardy, Italy.&quot;
According to the Italian Ansa News Agency report on March 25, under the coordination of the Lombardy Region Health Bureau, 14 research centers jointly published papers on the academic paper platform ArXiv. The new coronavirus began as early as January 1, 2020. Popular in Lombardy. The British &quot;Nature&quot; magazine commented on its website that the new coronary pneumonia outbreak had developed in Italy for several weeks before being discovered. In other words, the new coronavirus was already “active” in Italy in December 2019.
On March 17, the scientific journal &quot;Natural Medicine&quot; also published a paper &quot;The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2&quot; to study the origin of the new coronavirus. Robert Garry, a professor at Tulane University School of Medicine, one of the authors, said that many people think the virus originated in a seafood market in Wuhan, China, which may be a misunderstanding. &quot;Our analysis and some other analyses point to an earlier origin than that.&quot; &quot;There must be some cases in that market in Wuhan, but it is not the source of the virus.&quot;
Editor in charge: Liu Guangbo