URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9696933.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300069

Date : 2020-05-03 19:14:00
Title : Where does the new corona virus come from? Multinational studies have pointed out that it was not China
Ariticle : 
Original title: Where does the new corona virus come from? Multinational studies have pointed out that it was not China
Where does New Corona virus come from? It has always been the focus of public opinion. Although Wuhan, China was the first region to report the epidemic, but where did the new coronavirus come from? Many studies have supported it, not from China.
French study: French epidemic is triggered by locally circulating virus strains
The Pasteur Institute of France released a news bulletin on April 28, stating that a “trace analysis of imported and early-transmitted viruses in France” by the Institute showed that the French new coronary pneumonia epidemic was caused by an unknown local source. Caused by virus strains. This research result has been published in the pre-published form in the American Biological Papers Archives Network recently.
According to the announcement, the Pasteur Institute performed gene sequencing and comparison of 97 French new coronavirus samples collected from January 24 to March 24, and at the same time, 338 viral genes released by the Global Sharing Influenza Data Initiative The sequence was compared and analyzed to establish the virus evolution tree map. Through a comparative study, it was found that the new coronavirus popular in France comes from the clade of a virus that has been circulating in the country.
After in-depth analysis, the researchers found that the virus branch of the French outbreak was different from the imported cases reported in China and Italy. Etienne Simon-Lorriere, one of the leaders of this study and the head of RNA virus evolutionary genomics at the Pasteur Institute, pointed out: &quot;Now we conclude that the inference about the geographical origin of the virus is not reliable.&quot;
Italian Studies: Italian spread may be earlier than China
In fact, more than France, Italy ’s previous research also showed that Italy may spread the new coronavirus earlier than China.
On March 25, local time, according to the Italian Ansa News Agency, under the coordination of the Lombardy Region Health Bureau, 14 research centers published their joint research report on the academic paper pre-printing platform ArXiv. The results of the study showed that the new coronavirus began to spread in Lombardy as early as January 1, 2020, until the Italian patient was discovered on February 20.
In other words, the new coronavirus has been lurking in Italy for almost two months before being discovered.
Prior to this, the famous Italian medical expert Giuseppe Remuzi also made an important judgment: Italy&#39;s new crown epidemic may spread earlier than China! November 2019 may have become popular in Italy.
On March 17 this year, the scientific journal &quot;Natural Medicine&quot; also published a paper &quot;The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2&quot; that studies the origin of the new coronavirus.
Robert Garry, a professor at Tulane University School of Medicine, one of the authors, said that many people think the virus originated in a seafood market in Wuhan, China, which may be a misunderstanding. &quot;Our analysis and some other analyses point to an earlier origin than that.&quot; &quot;There must be some cases in that market in Wuhan, but it is not the source of the virus.&quot;
U.S. research: Outbreak of class A strains found more in the United States and Australia
On April 8, the internationally renowned academic journal &quot;Public Academy of Sciences&quot; (PNAS) published a research article entitled &quot;Related Variations of Viruses and Transmission Paths&quot;. Divided into three variants of A, B and C. Among them: Type A virus is more found in infected people in the United States and Australia. There are only a few cases of Class A in Wuhan, and they come from Americans who have lived in Wuhan. Type A is most similar to viruses extracted from bats and pangolins. Researchers call the class A virus &quot;the root cause of the outbreak.&quot; Type B strains are the main type in China (ie Wuhan) and have not spread out of East Asia. Class C viruses are the main type in Europe. Hong Kong, Singapore, and South Korea in the Asian region have this type, and they have not been found in mainland China.
In the end, researchers believe that type A viruses evolved into type B, and type B evolved into type C.
Chinese research inference: South China seafood market is not the birthplace of the virus
Chinese research also confirms this claim.
On January 24, in a paper published in The Lancet, Huang Zhaolin, deputy director of Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, analyzed the first batch of 41 cases of new pneumonia diagnosed and found that 13 of them had no history of exposure to the South China seafood market . The article also mentioned that the first newly diagnosed patient with the new crown became ill on December 1, 2019. There was no history of exposure to the South China seafood market, and no epidemiological links were found with subsequent confirmed cases. In other words, the South China seafood market is not the only source of new coronavirus.
On February 20, the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden of the Chinese Academy of Sciences released information on the official website that the new coronavirus from the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan was introduced from other places. It is inferred that this market is not the source of the virus.
Where does New Corona virus come from? It has always been the focus of public opinion. Although Wuhan was the first region to report the outbreak, it has not been determined where the new coronavirus came from.
On the afternoon of March 18, Zhong Nanshan, leader of the high-level expert group of the National Health and Health Commission and an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said at the Guangzhou Epidemic Prevention and Control News Ventilation Conference that the outbreak of New Coronary Pneumonia occurred in China and Wuhan. The source of the virus does not necessarily come from China or Wuhan.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming