URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi0968057.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200058

Date : 2020-05-02 11:17:00
Title : FDA issues emergency use authorization to redoxir for severe and pediatric patients
Ariticle : 
Original Title: FDA Issues Emergency Use Authorization to Redisive for Severe and Pediatric Patients
Beijing News (Reporter Zhang Xiulan) On May 1, US time, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) official website issued a message to issue an emergency use authorization (EUA) to the researched antiviral drug Ridexivir for the treatment of new coronary pneumonia Suspected and diagnosed severely ill adults and children hospitalized. Severe disease refers to patients with low blood oxygen levels or who require oxygen support therapy and more intensive respiratory support.
The FDA said that although there is still limited knowledge about the safety and effectiveness of reduxill in the treatment of patients with new coronary pneumonia, clinical studies have shown that the drug can shorten the recovery time of some patients.
The emergency use authorization is a new policy launched by the FDA in March this year, mainly for the registration and marketing guidance of new coronavirus-related products in public health under emergency. This authorization is regarded as a temporary “pass” for market listing. After the FDA announces the end of the epidemic, products with this qualification cannot be re-listed and need to apply for regular registration. According to information released by the FDA&#39;s official website, based on the consideration of emergency use authorization standards and existing scientific evidence, it is reasonable to believe that reduxil may be effective in the treatment of new coronary pneumonia. For more severe and even life-threatening new coronaviruses, given that there are no appropriate, approved or alternative therapies, the known and potential health benefits of using reducivir outweigh the known and potential risks .
At the same time, the emergency use authorization stated that medical personnel and patients should be provided with a series of important information about the use of reduxil, including medication instructions, potential side effects, and drug interactions.
Alex Azar, Secretary General of the National Institutes of Health, said that the FDA ’s emergency use authorization was issued two days after the results of a clinical trial of the National Institutes of Health were issued. The results of this clinical trial are encouraging, and are in the process of combating new coronary pneumonia. An important step forward.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern