URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1156813.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300060

Date : 2020-05-03 17:31:00
Title : The lesson is painful! A dinner party affected 89 people, and the two places announced the suspension of dinning
Ariticle : 
Original title: Lessons are painful! A dinner party affected 89 people, and the two places announced the suspension of dinning
With the arrival of the May Day holiday, many cities in China have become lively. Parks, shopping malls, restaurants and other places have gradually regained popularity. For example, in Luoyang, Henan, the local net red night market appeared on the 1st as a &quot;person-to-person&quot; scene.
The temptation of food! Foodies hit the red night market in Luoyang.com, people everywhere (video source: pear video)
But for the citizens of Harbin and Mudanjiang in Heilongjiang Province, there is more to wait for at the restaurant.
On May 1, the State Council ’s Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism notified the relevant situation of the clustered epidemic in Heilongjiang. The notification stated that since April 2020, a local clustered epidemic associated with imported new coronary pneumonia cases in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang Province In particular, many hospitals have suffered from nosocomial infections, which have a long duration, many infection cases, and bad social impact, which has brought new pressure to consolidate the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements.
Take Harbin as an example. In April this year, 89 people were infected due to the gathering epidemic of friends gathering for dinner.
In this context, the notice of Harbin City requires that from 0:00 on May 2, 2020, Harbin City ’s catering service units operating barbecues, shabu skewers, shabu-shabu, iron pot stews, etc. will suspend dine-in meals. .
Mudanjiang City also announced that from today (3rd), local barbecue, hot pot and other catering service units will suspend dine-in.
Prior to this, Wang Wentao, Governor of Heilongjiang, said at a regular video meeting that he profoundly reflected on the painful lessons of the collective infections in Harbin and Mudanjiang.
　　　
According to CCTV News, on the evening of May 2, the New Coronary Pneumonia Epidemic Prevention and Control Headquarters in Mudanjiang City, Heilongjiang Province issued the 20th announcement. The content details are as follows:
In order to further strengthen the prevention and control of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, effectively reduce the number of people gathered, resolutely curb the rebound and spread of the epidemic, and protect the health and safety of the public, the city ’s new coronavirus infection pneumonia epidemic prevention and control headquarters research and decision, the notice is as follows:
1. From 0:00 on May 3, 2020, catering service units operating barbecues, shabu skewers, shabu-shabu, wok stews and other catering services throughout the city will suspend dine-in meals, and the recovery time will be notified in accordance with changes in the epidemic situation.
2. All catering service units shall conscientiously implement the &quot;Guidelines for Prevention and Control Services of the Catering Industry During the Epidemic of New Coronavirus (Provisional)&quot;, and urge employees, customers, and delivery personnel to take preventive measures such as scanning codes, measuring temperature, and wearing masks. During the business period, strictly control the number of people entering the store, avoid personnel gathering, and increase the distance between customers to ensure the safety of customers. Regularly disinfect the business premises every day to maintain air circulation.
3. Shopping malls, supermarkets, farmer&#39;s markets and other life service venues must effectively fulfill the main responsibility of epidemic prevention. Strictly implement the code scanning, temperature measurement, and mask management for the entering personnel, arrange special personnel to maintain order, reasonably control the distance between entering personnel, and eliminate personnel Gather.
4. Continued suspension of operation for cinemas and theatres, entertainment halls, Internet cafes, KTV karaoke bars, bars, dance halls, and public baths that have been temporarily closed, as well as chess and card rooms, entertainment halls, Internet cafes, KTV karaoke rooms. Supervision departments of various industries should strengthen supervision and management, and strictly investigate and deal with violations of laws and regulations.
Fifth, counties, cities (districts) should conscientiously implement their territorial responsibilities, strengthen measures for importation of foreign defense and rebound of internal defense, and pay close attention to the prevention and control of normal epidemic situations. Business and market supervision and management departments at all levels should strengthen industry supervision and urge enterprises to strictly abide by the relevant provisions of the &quot;Guidelines for the Prevention and Control Services of the Catering Industry During the New Coronavirus Epidemic (Provisional)&quot; and &quot;Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of Epidemic Situation in the Service Industry (Specifications)&quot; Ensure that enterprises carry out business activities on the basis of comprehensive implementation of various epidemic prevention measures.
　　
On May 1, Wang Wentao, commander of the command team of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee Deputy Governor, Governor, and Provincial Leadership Team for Response to New Coronavirus Infection and Pneumonia, hosted a video conference in Daqing.
The meeting emphasized that the spirit of General Secretary Xi Jinping ’s important speech at the Politburo Standing Committee meeting should be earnestly implemented, and the spirit of the Central Leading Group Meeting on the New Coronary Pneumonia Outbreak Work chaired by Premier Li Keqiang should be implemented and compared with the State Council ’s Joint Prevention of New Coronavirus Pneumonia Issues and work requirements raised in the report issued by the Comprehensive Group of Control Mechanism on the situation of the new coronary pneumonia cluster epidemic in Heilongjiang Province, further enhance the political position, deepen ideological understanding, draw lessons deeply, reflect on the exposed problems, and promptly investigate loopholes, Make up for the shortcomings, take firm and decisive actions, improve and strengthen the prevention and control measures, resolutely reverse the passive situation of the work, and make due contributions to consolidating the nation&#39;s epidemic prevention and control.
The meeting emphasized that the overseas imported cases in Harbin and Mudanjiang were associated with local epidemic outbreaks, which had bad effects and painful lessons, and brought new pressure on the nation to consolidate the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements. It is necessary to profoundly reflect on the bulletin and point out that we have inadequate understanding of the epidemic prevention and control situation, the weak links in the pre-hospital prevention and control measures, the failure to carry out the nucleic acid testing in a timely manner, and the poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures. All cities and regions should use this as a mirror to tighten the string of epidemic prevention and control, resolutely eliminate war-weariness and paralysis, and take the actual results of epidemic prevention and control as a test to enhance the &quot;four consciousness&quot; and firmness. The touchstone for &quot;four self-confidences&quot; and &quot;two maintenances&quot; puts the highest priority on safeguarding people&#39;s lives and health, resolutely shoulders political responsibilities, fulfills local responsibilities, and defends foreign defenses with a firm determination to complete the battle A tough battle of input and internal anti-rebound.
　　　
According to the Heilongjiang Daily, on April 28, a local patient diagnosed with New Coronary Pneumonia admitted to the Harbin Infectious Hospital was cured and discharged.
Chen XX, male, 52 years old, was diagnosed as &quot;new coronavirus pneumonia&quot; by provincial and municipal experts on April 12, and the case was a common type of new coronary pneumonia. After careful treatment and care by medical staff, the body temperature returned to normal for more than three days, the relevant clinical symptoms disappeared, the lung imaging showed obvious inflammation absorption, and the nucleic acid test was negative for 3 consecutive times. After evaluation by the provincial and municipal expert groups, it reached the standard of cure and discharge, and entered the 14-day isolation medical observation stage.
This wave of Harbin spread from April 9 to the present local epidemic. As of 24:00 on April 27, there have been 89 infected people (68 confirmed cases and 21 asymptomatic infections), all of which are related cases. Chen XX is the first patient to be discharged from this publicly confirmed case of a local epidemic.
The source of the spread of this epidemic in Harbin is the international student Han Mou, and 87-year-old Chen Moujun is the most important part of the chain.
Han Mou, a 22-year-old female student who returned to Harbin from the United States, was a former infection of new coronary pneumonia (imported abroad). Cao was separated from his home by Han. He was a neighbor upstairs and downstairs. The two parties did not meet and lived together in the same building. Cao might be exposed to the environment contaminated by Han (such as elevators) and be infected with the new crown virus.
Cao infects her boyfriend Li and her mother Wang Mouling and her mother&#39;s boyfriend Guo Mouming.
Guo Mouming and Wang Mouling had a dinner together with Chen Moujun&#39;s family. 87-year-old Chen Moujun and two sons participated in the dinner and were diagnosed with infection. Chen Moujun&#39;s two daughters were subsequently diagnosed.
Chen Moujun was hospitalized in the Second Hospital of Harbin City and the First Hospital of Harbin Medical University due to stroke, which caused many patients, escorts and medical staff in the same ward of the two hospitals to be infected.
Chen XX, a patient diagnosed with local new coronary pneumonia who was cured and discharged on April 28, was diagnosed with new coronary pneumonia on April 12. According to the report of the Heilongjiang Health and Health Commission, from 0 to 24 April on April 12, 7 newly diagnosed cases in Heilongjiang Province were all local cases in Harbin, including 87-year-old Chen Moujun ’s two sons and a daughter. The other four were Chen Moujun&#39;s patients Duan Mou (female, 53 years old), Gao Mou (female, 57 years old) and Wang Mou (male, 53 years old), and Wang&#39;s wife (female, 53 years old) who had been accompanied in the hospital. 53 years old).
Source: CCTV News, People&#39;s Daily, Heilongjiang Daily, Southern Metropolis Daily, Daily Economic News, Pear Video
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming