URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9667467.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300054

Date : 2020-05-03 15:12:00
Title : Make up one knife: I almost fainted when I saw the ignorance of some professors in Chongmei!
Ariticle : 
Original title: I almost fainted at the ignorant speech of some professors!
Chongmei only because of lack of knowledge?
Sorting out and studying the performance of various countries in the impact of the new crown plague, the more observations, the stronger the feeling. According to my observation, the Chongmei School has one or more of the following characteristics:
The stagnation of some things did not improve 40 years ago, and the world has turned upside down;
Can&#39;t open the eyes to see the world and understand the reality, blindly worship the ability and motivation of the United States / Western;
Unwilling to face up to the reality of conflicts of interest between China and the United States;
Too little consideration of China ’s position and Chinese interests, and too much sentiment to the United States and the West;
A lot of time and energy indulge in empty talk, rather than doing practical things, or invest in learning, self-improvement;
When the fact proves that he has misunderstood, he refuses to introspect and improve himself, but argues bluntly;
...
Among the above characteristics, &quot;blind worship of the United States / West&quot; is the key feature. Many other words and deeds are derived from this point, and their blind worship of the United States is largely due to the lack of knowledge. One thing, or even just a declaration of what to do, makes a fuss, and thinks how great it is. In fact, China is not much worse than the United States in this respect, or even much stronger than the United States.
Taking things that China has done a lot better and shouting, &quot;Oh, America is amazing!&quot; And &quot;Oh, China should learn from the United States!&quot; This is not a joke?
01
Make a simple comparison:
In early March, the US epidemic began to be exposed, and many people spread on WeChat and Weibo: There is no major problem in the United States, and 1 million test reagents will be issued within this week ...
I do n’t know that an important part of the missed opportunity of the United States in the fight against epidemics is that there are problems with the detection reagents of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and this &quot;1 million detection reagents&quot; painting cake was painted by the US President and other senior officials at the hearing. It took four weeks before it was delivered and used like a turtle.
Not only that, the production and testing volume of Chinese testing reagents are also much higher than that of the United States:
On February 3, at the press conference held by the State Council&#39;s State Council Office on the joint prevention and control mechanism of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia epidemic, Tian Yulong, a member of the party group and chief engineer of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, said that by February 1, China&#39;s nucleic acid detection reagents have reached 773,000 daily output, 40 times the number of suspected cases.
As the local epidemic in China began to come to an end in mid-to-late February, the daily production of domestic nucleic acid detection reagents appeared to have decreased compared to early-February.
At a press conference held in Wuhan on the afternoon of March 6, the State Council Information Office, Wang Jiangping, member of the Central Steering Group and vice minister of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, said that as of that time, 12 manufacturing companies across the country had obtained product registration certificates for nucleic acid testing As of March 5, the total supply of the kits was 15.755 million copies. At that time, the daily output was 341,600 copies, and the enterprise stocked 2 million copies.
By mid-April, the epidemic in the United States was already surrounded by wildfires. The cumulative number of diagnoses and deaths ranked first in the world and far ahead. Many people, including many scholars, also praised the United States for its powerful testing capabilities. China should introduce advanced US testing technology .
As everyone knows, as of the time, the top three US self-proclaimed new crowns were the United States (294.40 million), Germany (1.31 million), and Russia (1.3 million). According to incomplete statistics, as of April 11, China was only Guangdong The Provincial Health and Health Commission completed more than 3.6 million copies of the new crown virus nucleic acid test.
Compared with the cumulative supply of 15.755 million nucleic acid detection reagents in China as of March 5, it is sighing.
02
The author looked at the words and deeds of some domestic professors in his spare time, and deeply felt that they were very separated from the real world, and they lacked the concept of the real economic and social development. Before, even 40 years ago.
For example, a dean of a college at a university praised the US government ’s US $ 2 trillion anti-epidemic and anti-crisis plan, saying that many people have no idea of US $ 2 trillion, and US $ 2 trillion is about 14 trillion yuan, which exceeds our national More than half a year of income, Yunyun.
I don&#39;t know what the &quot;revenue of our country&quot; refers to by the dean. From the general meaning and context of social communication, it should refer to GDP or gross national income.
If it refers to this indicator, then, China and the United States are the only two 10 trillion-dollar economies in the world, and Japan, the world ’s third largest economy, is equivalent to about 1/3 of China.
In 2007, China&#39;s GDP and gross national income both exceeded 27 trillion yuan, and the volume in half a year reached what he called 2 trillion US dollars / 14 trillion yuan.
According to the &quot;Statistical Bulletin of the National Economic and Social Development of the People&#39;s Republic of China in 2019&quot;, preliminary statistics show that China&#39;s GDP in 2019 is 990865 billion yuan, and its gross national income is 988458 billion yuan. Not enough &quot;more than half&quot;.
Similarly, when Trump visited China at the end of 2017, a professor said in an interview with foreign media that China-US trade, China exports a lot of resources in exchange for advanced American products, Yunyun.
I see it almost “fainting” here, because China has been a net importer of primary products since the mid-1990s. In the composition of Sino-US trade in goods over the years, almost all of China ’s exports to the United States are manufactured goods, while The proportion of primary products in imported goods is very high.
In March 2013, I calculated in the article on the FT Chinese Online Controversy with the then Governor of Nigeria ’s Central Bank, Lamido Sanusi, that in 2012, China ’s total imports from the United States accounted for narrowly defined primary products The ratio is 21.5%, and the proportion of primary products in China ’s imports from the United States is on the rise, and the proportion of China ’s exports to manufactured products is 97.5%.
Over the past few years, the above-mentioned basic characteristics of the composition of China-US goods trade commodities have not changed.
It is also because of lack of knowledge that many people, including many scholars with low professional titles, lack the concept of the &quot;policy is better than deed&quot; feature of politicians in Western-style polities, and only a few words about the West, especially American politicians, are too serious.
They regarded senior US officials and top figures as &quot;done,&quot; or even &quot;done.&quot; They seemed to be totally unaware of the distance between &quot;saying&quot; and doing &quot;doing&quot;, and even more so. Far from knowing that under Western-style politicians, politicians can gain political gains by selling the concept of planning as a practical matter that has already been done, they have a strong internal tendency to &quot;paint cakes&quot; to the public, and even show science overwhelming science.
03
As mentioned earlier, the President of the United States and other senior officials at the hearing painted a picture of &quot;a million test reagents issued within this week&quot; at the end of February and early March. , No science at all.
For example, if the United States dispatched a military hospital ship to participate in the fight against epidemics, some Chinese media and its audience have raved about this. In fact, the US-owned hospital ship is two ships instead of some people rendering it as 10%; Trump announced this At the time, the US military hospital ship was still under repair and maintenance, and it would take more than a week before it was dispatched. It was not like those who were misled by American politicians and rendered by some people in China would immediately &quot;chimp&quot; New York and California.
In addition, because the interior cannot be naturally ventilated and highly dependent on central air conditioning, it is easy to cause large-scale mass infections. The hospital ship itself is not suitable for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, even for the treatment of non-infectious patients, so as to free up land hospital beds Infected patients are also prone to paralysis of the entire hospital ship because the infectious patients are mixed into the hospital ship for treatment.
The result of the practice is indeed the same. No matter whether it is in New York or California, the U.S. military hospital ship with thousands of beds and thousands of medical personnel admitted to the anti-epidemic disease, only a few of them have only double digits, and they have also admitted patients Zhong entered the newly diagnosed patients with new coronary pneumonia and &quot;stroke&quot;, and finally withdrew.
&quot;Teachers, so preaching is also disturbed by karma&quot;; ordinary people are not enough, lacking the spirit of seeking truth from facts, and blindly admiring the beauty, but if teachers and scholars who assume the responsibility of teaching and educating people also lack the spirit of seeking truth and seeking truth, they will not work hard Open up your horizons and improve your level of knowledge, so for students, parents, and society, even if they do not consider the highest standards of &quot;evangelism&quot; requirements, they will be able to complete the qualifications according to the minimum &quot;learning to solve doubts&quot; requirements. Is it your duty?
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, some full-time professors and scholars have been keen on disseminating things that are misleading or even deliberately misleading. Instead, some practitioners such as investment banks and industrial and commercial enterprises are willing to work hard to collect and organize data and use facts , Data and logic, I am worried, and I feel that our education needs improvement.
Pictures are from the Internet
Source: Bu Yi Dao / Mei Xinyu (writing)
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming