URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-05/doc-iirczymi9941040.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500049

Date : 2020-05-05 13:48:00
Title : The man shouted regret when he returned to the UK: I should n’t have left China at all
Ariticle : 
Original title: Man shouting regret after returning to the UK: I should n’t have left China at all
According to a report by the British BBC, a British man who withdrew from China in the early days of the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic has now regretted his original choice and said that he &quot;should not have left China at all.&quot;
According to a BBC report, the man named Matt Raw stated that he originally withdrew from Wuhan, China, to the UK to avoid the turbulent new pneumonia epidemic, because there was no epidemic in Britain at the time.
But when he left China with his family at the end of January, and after 14 days of quarantine, he found that instead he had &quot;just escaped the steamer and jumped into the fire pit again.
He also believes that China&#39;s epidemic prevention and control work has not only been done correctly, but also that it has acted much faster than Britain in limiting the spread of the epidemic.
&quot;I remember that the first case in the UK came when we were isolated after we returned to the UK. At that time, I thought the UK should take immediate action since it saw what happened in China. But they did nothing,&quot; he said.
With the epidemic in China now under control, the British man stated that his friend&#39;s life in Wuhan has gradually returned to normal.
&quot;They have come out of the blockade and it seems that they have controlled the epidemic. But they have not taken it lightly and are still taking some preventive measures to avoid unnecessary going out,&quot; he said.
This situation also made him regret the decision to leave China, saying that the choice to return to the UK was &quot;certainly a mistake&quot;.
But he also said that he still prefers to be isolated in the UK, on the one hand because his neighbors in the UK are very friendly, and on the one hand because &quot;when you come, you are safe.&quot;
He also said that he will not return to China at present, unless there is a vaccine against the new coronavirus, because his 75-year-old mother can no longer toss.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen