URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iirczymi9186639.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000031

Date : 2020-04-30 10:58:00
Title : New crown patient died unexpectedly before leaving hospital
Ariticle : 
Original title: New crown patient died unexpectedly before discharge, virus remains in lungs
So far, tens of thousands of patients with new crowns have been clinically cured and discharged, but some cured patients have again appeared positive for SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid test, which has caused concern about the issue of &quot;re-yang&quot;.
The newly published pathological study of a new crown death patient on April 28 provides a rare perspective on this issue. A patient who tested negative for a new crown nucleic acid three times in a row and met discharge criteria died unexpectedly from a heart attack. The researchers conducted pathological studies on the remains, and by examining the tissues of the lungs, liver, heart, intestines, and skin, they found that there was still new coronavirus in the lungs.
The research was published in the authoritative journal &quot;Cell Research&quot; under the leadership of the Chinese Academy of Sciences under the Natural Publishing Group. Authors include the Third Military Medical University of the Chinese People&#39;s Liberation Army, Southern Medical University and so on. Corresponding authors are Bian Xiuwu, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and professor of the Army Military Medical University, and professor Liu Xindong of the Third Military Medical University of the Chinese People&#39;s Liberation Army.
The researchers said that as more and more patients are discharged, there is an urgent need to understand the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, the researchers conducted a postmortem pathology study on a COVID-19 patient who died of a cardiovascular accident. Pathological examination revealed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus remained in the lung cells, and there were pathological changes caused by the virus in the lungs. This provides new insights into the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and may help improve clinical guidelines for viral containment and disease management.
The research subject is a 78-year-old female patient. She was admitted to the hospital on January 27, 2020 due to a fall. The patient reported having contact with a new crown patient on January 25. Since January 29, the patient developed symptoms of pneumonia. On February 2, after a nasopharyngeal swab was collected and tested by PCR, the patient was confirmed to be positive for SARS-CoV-2 and began to receive treatment.
On February 3, the patient&#39;s CT chest scan revealed multiple patchy shadows on both lungs, indicating that she had a lung infection. From February 8 to 10, the hospital performed three consecutive PCR tests on nasopharyngeal swab samples, all of which showed SARS-CoV-2 negative. From February 11th to 13th, the patient&#39;s condition improved markedly, and CT examination showed absorption of inflammation in the lungs.
According to the standard, the patient is ready to be discharged. However, on February 14, the patient suddenly died of cardiac arrest.
Although the patient&#39;s nasopharyngeal swab showed SARS-CoV-2 virus nucleic acid negative, the researchers tried to determine: does the patient still have SARS-CoV-2 virus residue? The researchers performed digital PCR tests on the lung, liver, heart, intestine and skin tissue sections of the patient. Unexpectedly, only SARS-CoV-2 virus nucleic acid was found positive in the lungs and not other tissues.
The researchers&#39; further observation with an electron microscope also showed that there are clear coronavirus particles in ciliated bronchiolar epithelial cells and type II AE with lamellar features. The diameter of the virus particles is 70–100 nm. As shown below:
In addition, the researchers performed immunohistochemical (IHC) staining with monoclonal antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid and also confirmed the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in lung tissue. As shown below:
Coronavirus particles and SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid were not detected in the liver, heart, intestine, skin and bone marrow of the patient. These results fully demonstrate that there is SARS-CoV-2 virus residue in the lungs of this dischargeable COVID-19 patient.
Histopathological examination of lung biopsy specimens revealed that the patients were mainly diffuse alveolar lesions, such as proliferative type II AE, extensive exudation of monocytes and macrophages. Some alveolar walls are partially lined by low-column type II alveolar epithelial cells and form a transparent membrane in the alveolar space. The alveolar interval thickened, interstitial inflammation infiltration and clear thrombus scattered in the microvessels, but no pulmonary edema was found. As shown below:
There are also changes related to chronic respiratory diseases in the lung tissue. To further describe the cell types infiltrating immune cells in the alveolar spaces and septum, the researchers performed IHC staining and found that they mainly infiltrated CD68 + macrophages, CD20 + B cells, and CD8 + T cells. CD4 + T and CD38 + plasma cells are almost undetectable (data not shown). As shown below:
As of now, the pathological features of COVID-19, especially in the lung tissue of mild and rehabilitation patients, are still unknown. In this study, the research team conducted a post-mortem pathology study on an elderly patient with mild COVID-19 pneumonia and discovered pathological changes in the lungs caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Histologically, the researchers observed that the patient ’s lungs were mainly diffuse alveolar damage, including ruptured alveolar septa, proliferation and shedding of type II AE, exudation of fibrin, monocytes and macrophages, and the formation of clear membrane .
These lung pathological features are consistent with those observed in SARS and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), and the research team believes that this shows that the successful treatment of SARS and MERS can be used for COVID-2019 treatment.
Through the use of comprehensive methods including electron microscopy and IHC staining, the researchers found that SARS-CoV-2 remained in the patient ’s lungs, which proved that the possibility of nasopharyngeal swabs was negative but the lung tissue still had viruses. In addition, the research of the research team provided the first pathological evidence for patients with nasopharyngeal swabs that had three consecutive PCR-negative lung virus residues. Therefore, the research team strongly recommends that patients who can be discharged can be tested for SARS-CoV-2 in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid by PCR nucleic acid detection, and extend the quarantine time.
The research team specifically recommends that follow-up medical examinations should be performed on discharged patients, especially elderly patients with underlying diseases.
Surging news reporter He Liping
Editor in charge: Zheng Yapeng