URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi1038844.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200073

Date : 2020-05-02 20:17:00
Title : What do you want to hide? Investigating Trump, White House prevents Fawchi from giving testimony
Ariticle : 
Original title: What do you want to hide? Investigating Trump, White House prevents Fawchi from giving testimony
According to data from the website of Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of 11:30 on the 2nd, Beijing time, the number of confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia in the United States exceeded 1.1 million, and the cumulative deaths exceeded 65,000.
The epidemic is grim, and US President Trump&#39;s lack of response to the epidemic has attracted much attention. The US media has already shouted &quot;Don&#39;t let Trump run away.&quot;
The US House Appropriations Committee is expected to hold a hearing next week to investigate the Trump administration ’s response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, and plans to summon infectious disease expert Fuch to attend.
During the anti-epidemic period, Trump often throws out unreliable remarks like &quot;injection disinfectant can kill viruses&quot;, which is dazzling. In contrast, Fuchs, known as the &quot;Captain of Anti-epidemic Disease,&quot; has always adhered to scientific prevention and control, becoming the hope of the United States to overcome the virus.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noticed that, out of protection for Trump, the White House had refused to allow Fuchs to attend the hearing, which is really &quot;no silver three hundred two here!&quot; Democrat Rep. Don Baier tweeted that obstructing Fawchi ’s testimony is a sure sign of the Trump administration ’s ineffective response.
US Consumer News and Business Channel (CNBC) news on the 1st, White House spokesman Judd Deere confirmed this statement, he said in a statement that the Trump administration is responding to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, including reopening the economy And vaccine development, but the presence of relevant people at a congressional hearing will make these efforts counterproductive.
As we all know, as the top infectious disease expert in the United States and a core member of the White House New Crown Outbreak Task Force, Fuch has become one of the most trusted figures in the United States during the outbreak.
In a poll conducted by Fox News at the end of March, on the question &quot;Do you agree with the actions of the following organizations / persons in the epidemic&quot;, Fauci&#39;s support (77%) is much higher than that of Trump (51%) the first.
Trump ’s “achievements” in responding to the epidemic were obvious to all. He wasted precious time that China has won for the world. After the US epidemic became more severe, he repeatedly dumped China and the World Health Organization and fabricated the “China Responsibility Theory” and “Virus Origin” Wait for absurd arguments.
Trump is responsible for his default. As early as March 16, Williams, a Fox News reporter and political analyst, wrote in Capitol Hill that Trump failed to protect Americans from the virus and his failure could not be covered by political lies , He must take due responsibility for this.
Foch has publicly criticized Trump&#39;s unreliable remarks about the new crown epidemic.
The most impressive thing is that on March 22, the headline of the US authoritative academic journal &quot;Science&quot; published the interview record of Foch. In the interview, Fuchs criticized Trump&#39;s statement at the press conference that China &quot;should tell the United States of the new coronavirus epidemic 3-4 months in advance.&quot;
Fudge cannot tolerate this kind of bottomless splashing of dirty water, &quot;I told the relevant person that this is not appropriate, because it may be September (last year) three or four months earlier.&quot;
Fudge then said, &quot;I can&#39;t always jump in front of the microphone. Push him down.&quot;
Trump&#39;s supporters held demonstrations and demonstrations many times during the epidemic, shouting the slogan &quot;fire Foch.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noted that Fuchs became the person who “will make these efforts counterproductive” by investigating the Trump administration ’s response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. What to hide.
In response to the Trump administration ’s covert behavior on the epidemic, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang issued three consecutive questions in response to the question on April 27: When did the epidemic first appear in the United States? Has the US government concealed anything? Why are you eager to &quot;spit the pot&quot; to other countries and international organizations?
Geng Shuang emphasized that on these issues, we hope that the US government can respond to the concerns of its people and the international community in a timely manner, and whether it can also ask WHO to assist in the investigation.
Although the White House prevented Fawc from attending testimony this time, the truth will surface sooner or later.
Anne Shuchat, the second official of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said on the 1st that the US government was too slow to recognize the threat of new coronavirus pneumonia from Europe.
She reiterated that the detection of New Coronavirus in the United States is limited, and that the travel alerts from areas outside of China are long overdue, all of which have caused a surge in confirmed cases of New Coronavirus pneumonia in the United States from the end of February.
Reference materials: Reference News, Overseas Network, Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, etc.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming