URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9344366.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100023

Date : 2020-05-01 08:47:00
Title : On this May Day, China, the United States and Russia each have a major event!
Ariticle : 
Original title: This May 1st, China, the United States and Russia each have a major event!
Source: Niu Qin
(One)
This is the most unusual May Day holiday, no one. One-third of 2020 is over.
Wake up, what happened should continue to happen. China, the United States and Russia have their own major events, tragedies, comedies, and farce.
For Russia, this should be a very shocking day.
On April 30th, Moscow time (May 1st, Beijing time), Russian Prime Minister Mishustin said in a video connection with Putin that he was infected with the new crown virus and would have to isolate himself.
Mishustin told Putin: &quot;Dear Vladimir Putin, I just learned that the coronavirus test I submitted was positive. Therefore, according to the request of the Russian Economic and Trade and Health Investigation Bureau, I need to isolate myself and follow the doctor&#39;s instructions . This must be done to ensure the health of my colleagues. &quot;
There was another earthquake in Russian politics.
1. Prime Minister Mishustin was diagnosed and isolated.
2. Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov served as acting Prime Minister.
3. All government ministers in contact with Mishustin will be tested.
Considering the current epidemic situation in Russia, the possibility of more ministers being diagnosed cannot be ruled out.
This spring of 2020 is also unusual for Putin.
In January, Medvedev, who had followed him for many years, suddenly resigned as prime minister and Mishustin took office.
Next, Russia revised the constitution, but because of the epidemic, the constitutional referendum was postponed.
He planned a military parade on Red Square on May 9, and Russia&#39;s biggest diplomatic move in 2020 was also forced to be postponed.
International oil prices have fallen below floor prices, which is undoubtedly worse for the Russian economy.
Now, the Prime Minister as the second leader of Russia has been diagnosed again.
Behind the prime minister&#39;s diagnosis is Russia&#39;s epidemic that cannot be ignored. The cumulative number of diagnoses in Russia has exceeded 100,000 and more than 1,000 deaths have occurred.
Considering Russia&#39;s relatively cold climate, Russia&#39;s most difficult time may not yet come.
Putin, come on!
(two)
In Washington, jaw-dropping news is happening every day.
There is no doubt that during this May 1st long holiday, the Chinese are taking advantage of the holidays, and American politicians are actively discrediting them.
So that the last working day before May 1st, at a press conference of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Reuters reporters asked questions like this:
US President Trump interviewed Reuters yesterday saying that China is trying to make him lose the election. What&#39;s China&#39;s comment? Second, in response to questions such as tariffs, President Trump stated that China may be responsible for its performance in response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. He is considering various options. What&#39;s your comment on this?
A big cauldron was thrown onto China again. I estimate that Geng Shuang is also very uncomfortable, and answered directly:
Regarding the first question, we have said many times that the US election is an internal matter of the United States, and China has no interest in intervening. At the same time, we also hope that the domestic politics of the United States will not talk about China.
China is not interested!
But the reality is that American politicians will constantly touch porcelain and come up with new tricks.
For the second question, Geng Shuang went back like this:
For some time, individual politicians in the United States have disregarded the facts, discredited and attacked China, attempted to shirk their responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the epidemic, divert their attention, and blame them. This approach will not erase the anti-epidemic achievements of the Chinese people through hard work, but will only expose the sinister intentions of individual individuals in the United States and their own serious problems ...
When answering similar questions from Bloomberg reporters later, Geng Shuang answered patiently:
When I answered a question from a Reuters reporter just now, I said that the new coronavirus pneumonia is a natural disaster. Like the United States, China is the victim of the virus ... As for the so-called punishment and accountability. I remember that we have said many times before at a press conference that there is no legal basis for this statement and there is no international precedent in this regard.
I do n’t remember who was punished after major outbreaks such as H1N1 flu, Ebola, and Zika. Who is responsible for this? As a matter of urgency, the international community should still increase mutual trust, strengthen unity, and fight the epidemic together. As I said just now, demolishing someone else&#39;s station at this time will eventually dismantle his own station.
The reason for the original transcription, because of the diplomatic language, is still very interesting:
1. We still say &quot;individual politicians in the United States.&quot; China still maintains great restraint, saying that these people are &quot;individuals.&quot;
2. But China is very angry. It is too immoral to dump the pot like this.
3. The consequences are very serious. Demolition of other people&#39;s desks will eventually demolish their own.
But this world is so cruel. I always feel that this is just a small test of the great commander. With the way he and some of his politicians do things, more absurd and more extreme things can happen.
As long as you can shake the pot, no matter what pot it is!
Considering that the US election is imminent, there is no doubt that there will be a more fierce battle between pot dumping and anti-pot dumping.
The farce will continue.
(three)
May 1, Is there any good news?
There are still. As the article said yesterday, the situation has undergone major changes, the time of the two sessions has been determined, and the 14-day quarantine regulations in Beijing have also been changed. Therefore, one result is that train tickets and air tickets are sold out. Blood is back.
There is also good news related to South Korea.
According to a report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, China and South Korea have just reached an agreement to establish an &quot;express path&quot; for important business, logistics, production and technical services in urgent need for personnel exchanges between China and South Korea.
If you guess right:
1. The recognized Korean entrepreneur will be able to enter China through the &quot;fast track&quot;.
2. The first batch of ten provinces in China is subject to the &quot;fast-track&quot; approach. This should include Shandong, Shanghai, Jiangsu and other provinces with more Koreans. Since it is &quot;fast&quot;, it is estimated that if the conditions are met, Korean entrepreneurs will be able to avoid foreigners The 14-day quarantine requirement.
3. When Chinese entrepreneurs enter South Korea, a similar &quot;fast track&quot; will apply.
Don&#39;t underestimate the importance of this policy.
If you are right, this is a major diplomatic innovation and the world ’s first simplified entry measures between the two countries to address the epidemic.
At a press conference at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Geng Shuang said: &quot;Establish a&quot; fast track &quot;. It will help China and South Korea better coordinate the promotion of epidemic prevention and control and economic and social development, as well as the stable operation of regional and global industrial chains and supply chains.
Not only is it conducive to the economy of China and South Korea, it is also conducive to the stability of the supply chain of the global industry chain. Of course, it also reflects the closeness of the industry chain between China and South Korea and the mutual trust between the two countries.
The epidemic continues, and people dare not be careless. Without enough mutual trust, such a thing really cannot be done.
The innovation of the &quot;fast track&quot; between China and South Korea will definitely continue to expand, and most likely, it will include Japan and expand to ASEAN.
The epidemic is a mirror. We have to see that some countries are trying their best to dump the pan, and some countries are strengthening cooperation.
The mountains and rivers are different, the wind and the moon are on the same day, and the practices and realms of the eastern countries may not be understood by some western countries.
2020, the year of Gengzi, is indeed very unusual.
We used to say that the world ’s unprecedented changes in the past hundred years, we thought more about the changes in the world ’s political and economic structure, the game between Russia, the United States, and China, the wars in West Asia and North Africa, and the populism in Europe and the Americas. The black swan is an epidemic.
Everything has changed!
Kissinger, who is accustomed to the changing situation, sighed: The new crown epidemic will permanently change the world order.
For all countries in the world, this is a big test. We have witnessed one history after another, and we will witness more history.
The most unusual spring of 2020 is about to pass, and everyone is happy on May Day!
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu