URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9823243.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400052

Date : 2020-05-04 16:54:00
Title : The third grade of Wuhan High School starts the day after tomorrow, and will add one lesson every day and take classes on Saturday
Ariticle : 
Original title: The third grade of Wuhan High School will start the day after tomorrow. There will be one additional class every day and classes will be held on Saturday.
Beijing News (Reporter Xu Meihui) At 4 pm on May 4, the Hubei Province New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemic Prevention and Control Headquarters held the 91st press conference to introduce the preparations for the resumption of the third grade in Wuhan.
Wuhan Foreign Language School principal Wang Zhigao introduced that the third grade of Wuhan High School will begin on May 6. In order to minimize and reduce the impact of the epidemic, and ensure the order and quality of the education and teaching of the third grade, Wuhan has already conducted a sub-disciplinary quality inspection and evaluation of online learning in the third grade in the early stage to help students find and fill gaps.
On the other hand, after the resumption of the class, the second round of the third year of high school will be further refined, and the college entrance examination will be used to extend the time of one month to further consolidate the foundation, strengthen training, and strengthen the organization. , Complete all the teaching content and preparation for the third year of high school in time, quality and quantity, laying a solid foundation for students to meet the college entrance examination.
In addition, Wuhan will appropriately increase the number of hours in the third grade of high school, implement the teaching goals, and increase one class every day and take classes on Saturday. Make a scientific and reasonable allocation of the additional class hours to ensure that each subject completes the teaching progress, goals and tasks according to the plan.
Wang Zhigao said that Wuhan City will also strengthen psychological counseling for students. Before the resumption of class, Wuhan has conducted online special education for epidemic prevention and control of high school students; Face and mental state greet the college entrance examination.
Beijing News reporter Xu Meihui
　　 
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming