URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-29/doc-iirczymi8961183.shtml
ID : SINA2020042900030

Date : 2020-04-29 09:19:00
Title : US media is in a hurry: Trump will make China great again
Ariticle : 
Original title: American media is in a hurry: Trump will make China great again
The American National Interest article of April 27, original question: In the post-epidemic era, will the Trump administration make China great again?
In the current fight against the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic, China and the United States have performed very differently. This may lead to a major change in the world order.
China effectively uses a scientific approach that focuses on health to fight the new coronavirus. The United States took an economically important approach to the epidemic, which harmed scientists and health experts. In addition, Trump also rejected relevant information provided by his own intelligence and military agencies.
China&#39;s comprehensive geopolitical strategy has brought many opportunities from Europe to Africa; while the White House narrowly uses Taiwan and Sri Lanka as chess pieces, lacking diplomatic acumen and strategic vision, and facing escaping the epidemic situation, mistakes, doubts, and incompetence.
To shirk its responsibilities, the United States recently announced that it would stop funding WHO. To remind Americans that he is the “cheerleader” of the United States, Trump also printed his name on cheques to stimulate the economy. This is an unprecedented &quot;retail campaign&quot; trick that exposes a sense of inferiority.
At the same time, Beijing has become a keen pioneer in humanitarian response (epidemic), providing a large number of masks, ventilators and even medical personnel and various other assistance to many countries from Europe to Africa. The United States has prevented export of masks to neighboring countries such as Canada. Ironically, the United States receives more Chinese aid than the United States (the government) provides to its own people.
For China, foreign aid (anti-epidemic) can transform the “Belt and Road” initiative into a new healthy silk road, thereby enhancing China ’s global reputation. And the United States&#39; bad attempts to curb China&#39;s growing influence by signing Taiwan-related &quot;bills&quot; and other means are far less attractive than the &quot;Belt and Road&quot; initiative. At this point, it is clear that most countries have little benefit from joining the US camp.
Facts speak louder than words. For example, Sri Lanka is becoming more and more important for the US-China foreign policy goals. But the United States is losing control of Sri Lanka, as can be seen from its failure to extend the &quot;Status of Forces Agreement.&quot; At the same time, just a few days after Colombo filed an urgent request, China extended a 10-year concessional loan to help Sri Lanka fight the epidemic. Sri Lanka, like many countries, is transforming its cooperation with China accordingly.
Under the current epidemic situation, China is developing economic partnership and advancing its foreign policy goals. The Trump administration ’s short-sighted policies are leading the United States to a natural failure of geopolitics. If the United States continues to pursue a failed policy, distrust allies, and shirk its global responsibilities, China will be able to automatically become a global leader in the post-epidemic era-not deliberately designed, but defaulted.
Author Patrick Mendez et al., Translated by Qiao Heng
Editor in charge: Zhang Di