URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9534145.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200055

Date : 2020-05-02 15:25:00
Title : Miscarriage induced by the new crown in mid-pregnancy: a fetal autopsy in Switzerland showed no abnormal nucleic acid and positive placenta
Ariticle : 
Original title: New crown induced abortion in mid-pregnancy: a fetal autopsy in Switzerland has no abnormal nucleic acid and positive placenta
After the outbreak of the new crown epidemic, infection of pregnant women is one of the focuses of research. Previous studies generally believed that there was no evidence of vertical transmission between mother and child. However, in addition to the vertical transmission of mothers and infants, the scientific community is also concerned about other potential adverse effects, which are equally life-threatening. For example, the latest research shows that COVID-19 has the possibility of inducing placental pathology and triggering miscarriage in the second trimester.
The above conclusions come from a study published online by the top academic journal &quot;JAMA&quot; on April 30 local time. A study “Second-Trimester Miscarriage in a Pregnant Woman With SARS-CoV-2 Infection” completed by the team of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the Institute of Microbiology and the Institute of Pathology of the University Hospital Lausanne Mid-term miscarriage cases.
The pregnant woman in the report in this report is 28 years old, obese, and is the first pregnancy. She developed fever (39.2 ° C), muscle pain, fatigue, mild swallowing pain, diarrhea, and dry cough at 19 weeks of gestation. The nasopharyngeal swab was positive for SARS-CoV-2. The pregnant woman received oral acetaminophen and was discharged home.
Two days later, on March 20, 2020, the pregnant woman had severe uterine contractions and fever, and her symptoms did not improve, and no signs of pneumonia were found. A vaginal examination revealed a 5 cm dilation of the cervix and bulging fetal membranes. At the same time, fetal movement is active, fetal tachycardia (180 / min), ultrasound examination shows that fetal morphology, growth and amniotic fluid are normal.
Before delivery began, the doctor gave her a local anesthesia using preventive amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium. Throughout the childbirth, pregnant women wore masks, and two medical staff who had negative SARS-CoV-2 test results also wore masks. A stillbirth was delivered 10 hours after delivery through the birth canal.
After obtaining institutional review board approval and written informed consent, the research team used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to detect SARS-CoV-2, cultures to detect pathogens, and trachoma samples from mothers, fetuses, and placenta PCR detection of Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Mycoplasma hominis and Ureaplasma urealyticum.
It is worth noting that the study also performed placental histology and fetal autopsy by two experienced perinatal pathologists. Hematoxylin-eosin, myeloperoxidase immunohistochemistry, Gram stain and periodate-Schiff (PAS) staining were performed on the placenta.
The results showed that the amniotic fluid and vaginal swabs collected during delivery were negative for SARS-CoV-2 and bacterial infections (table). Swabs drawn from the armpits, mouth, meconium, and fetal blood within a few minutes after birth were negative for SARS-CoV-2 and bacterial infections. Fetal autopsy showed no abnormalities, and fetal lung, liver, and thymus biopsies were negative for SARS-CoV-2.
In terms of placenta testing, within a few minutes after the placenta was delivered, the research team used a sterile scalpel to sterilize and treat the surface of the placenta, and performed two swab tests and biopsies (near the umbilical cord and surrounding edges). The results showed that the bacterial infection was negative, but SARS-CoV-2 was positive. After 24 hours, the placenta remained positive for SARS-CoV-2. At 48 hours, maternal blood, urine, and vaginal swabs were all negative for SARS-CoV-2, while nasopharyngeal swabs were still positive.
A. Neutrophils and macrophages in the subvillous space, suggesting acute subchorial inflammation (hematoxylin-eosin × 20). B. Increased fibrin deposition between the villi and increased syncytial nodules (hematoxylin-eosin × 10). C. Umbilitis (hematoxylin-eosin × 20). D. Neutrophil specific staining for umbilical cord inflammation (myeloperoxidase immunohistochemistry × 20).
Placental histology showed mixed inflammatory infiltration of neutrophils and monocytes in the subvillous space, and increased non-specific intervillous fibrin deposition. Umbilical cord connective tissue inflammation, suggesting that the fetus has increased inflammation. Gram-staining of placenta and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining, PCR and culture did not reveal any bacterial or fungal infections.
The research team pointed out during the discussion that this COVID-19 pregnant woman&#39;s miscarriage in the second trimester was related to the placenta infection SARS-CoV-2. Virological findings in the placenta supported this view.
They analyzed that contamination during delivery, sampling, or laboratory evaluation is unlikely, because all other swabs are negative for SARS-CoV-2. No other cause of fetal death has been found.
Of course, there is no evidence of vertical transmission in this case, but considering the stage of fetal development and the short duration of maternal infection, the research team mentioned, &quot;It is not surprising that no virus was detected in the fetus. The placental barrier deserves further study. &quot;
The research team also mentioned the limitations of the study, including individual cases and other causes of miscarriage that cannot be ruled out, such as spontaneous preterm delivery, cervical insufficiency, or undetected systemic or local bacterial infections.
The research team quoted previous studies that mentioned that among pregnant women infected with the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV), 40% of pregnant women are affected by placenta Chronic placental insufficiency, resulting in miscarriage or fetal growth restriction.
They reminded that it is necessary to conduct more research on COVID-19 pregnant women to determine whether SARS-CoV-2 will cause similar adverse results.
In fact, there are not many studies on neonatal coronavirus infection in pregnant women. As early as February 10th, local time, Xia Shiwen, director of the Department of Neonatology, Hubei Maternal and Child Health Hospital and others published the first relevant study on neonatal coronavirus pneumonia infection in Chinese neonates in translational pediatrics. From January 20 to February 5, 2020, 10 neonates delivered from 9 pregnant women (one with twins) were diagnosed with novel coronavirus infection in 5 hospitals in Hubei Province. Their clinical characteristics and outcomes were analyzed.
Xia Shiwen et al. Found through research that new perinatal infection of mothers with new coronary pneumonia may have adverse effects on newborns, such as premature delivery, fetal distress, respiratory distress, thrombocytopenia with abnormal liver function and even death. There is evidence of vertical transmission from mother to child.
Subsequently, on February 12th, local time, the cooperation team led by Professor Zhang Yuanzhen of Wuhan University Central South Hospital, Professor Hou Wei of the Institute of Medical Virology, Wuhan University School of Medicine, and Professor Yang Huixia of Peking University First Hospital in the top medical journal &quot;Lancet&quot; (The Lancet) published a study reviewing the clinical features of 9 cases of COVID-19 infection during pregnancy and exploring the potential for vertical transmission in utero. Their conclusions are relatively optimistic, believing that the clinical symptoms of 9 patients are similar to other patients, and all newborns are still alive by caesarean section. At the same time, it is pointed out that for pregnant women in the third trimester, there is no evidence that the new coronavirus can be transmitted vertically through the uterus to have an adverse effect on the newborn and the fetus.
In response to this study by Zhang Yuanzhen and others, Qiao Jie, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, dean of Peking University Third Hospital, and member of the national medical team in aid to Hubei also published a review article at the same time in the top medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot;. It is mentioned that previous studies have shown that SARS during pregnancy is associated with a high incidence of adverse complications of maternal and neonatal conditions, such as spontaneous abortion, premature delivery, intrauterine growth restriction, endotracheal intubation, intensive care unit admission, kidney Functional failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation disorders. However, in this latest study by Zhang Yuanzhen and others, there are fewer adverse complications for pregnant women and newborns than SARS-infected pregnant women.
Qiao Jie also mentioned that the clinical characteristics reported in pregnant women diagnosed with new coronavirus infection are similar to those in the general diagnosed population, which indicates that the clinical course and outcome of new coronavirus infection are relatively optimistic compared with SARS virus infection.
On March 4, local time, Professor Guo Yubiao, the director of the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine of the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, and others analyzed 13 pregnant women outside Wuhan, including 2 Less than 28 weeks, 11 cases were in the third trimester, and all pregnant women had no underlying diseases. Of the 13 pregnant women, 3 had improved and were discharged after treatment. The remaining 10 patients had undergone cesarean section. Five of the 10 cesarean sections were performed urgently due to pregnancy complications, including fetal distress (3 cases), premature rupture of membranes (1 case) and stillbirth (1 case). Of the 13 pregnant women, 6 (46%) had premature delivery at 32-36 weeks of gestation.
Guo Yubiao and others believe that these perinatal complications can be attributed to viral infections and physiological changes, which reduces pregnant women&#39;s tolerance to hypoxia in late pregnancy. However, they also pointed out that in 9 live births, no severe neonatal asphyxia was observed and no vertical transmission was found.
Thesis link: https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2765616? resultClick = 1
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming