URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/s/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi1020635.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200066

Date : 2020-05-02 13:21:00
Title : Southwest University finds an asymptomatic infected school teacher responds
Ariticle : 
original title:
(Health Times reporter Liang Yuan) &quot;Before all students return to school, arrange students in key areas to return to school first, concentrate on quarantine observation and testing, is this a problem?&quot; For a return student from Southwest University who was diagnosed with new coronary pneumonia on April 30 Symptoms of the infected person, Fang Jian, a lecturer at the Marxist School of Southwest University and secretary of the Party branch of the Department of Marxist Sinicization Education, posted a clarification on his personal social media and referred to the previous report as &quot;simple, rude, rhythmic, and hot.&quot;
　　
According to the website of the Chongqing Health and Health Commission, on April 30, Chongqing added a new case of asymptomatic infection, imported for Hubei Province, and reported in Beibei District, but did not disclose its identity and details. The emergency duty room of the Health and Health Commission of Beibei District in Chongqing City previously responded that the same car and close contacts have been transferred to the centralized isolation point in Beibei District for medical observation. According to &quot;Chongqing Daily&quot;, Chongqing colleges and universities can arrange the first batch of students and teachers who have graduated grades, medical specialties, medical colleges and scientific research tasks to start classes from May 11th.
Regarding Southwest University&#39;s &quot;arrangement to return to school before May 11&quot; and subsequent cases of asymptomatic infections, there are many controversies on the Internet: Why do asymptomatic infected students and their colleagues at Southwest University return to school before April 29?
In response to doubts and accusations, Fang Jian responded on his social media: &quot;Before all students return to school, arrange students in key areas to return to school first, and concentrate on observation and testing. Is there any problem? It turns out that there are not many parties Given the experience of returning to school, it is necessary and correct to organize students in key areas to return to school first, which is helpful to discover problems in advance, protect teachers and students to the greatest extent, and even protect the surrounding areas. &quot;
　　
&quot;Students in the second year of doctoral or second year of master&#39;s degree are facing the problem of graduating in the second year, and some of the experiments have not been completed, they can apply for early return to school.&quot; Opened an online application channel for early return to school.
&quot;Many disciplines at Western University involve agronomy and biology majors. If we graduate students don&#39;t go back, the experimental materials will be useless, and it will be a few months to re-preparation. This will cause a student to postpone for half a year to a year.&quot; Zhou Wei (pseudonym) is The second-year doctoral student of Southwest University has been at home for more than 3 months since the winter vacation on January 23. Zhou Wei said that he applied for a return to school before the deadline of April 27, but has not yet received approval and return notice. At home, Zhou Wei also needs to log in to the mobile phone software every day to upload positioning, physical status, etc., and report to the counselor in time.
The screenshot of the Southwest University&#39;s return to school notice circulating on the Internet shows that the school&#39;s return to school in batches and installments is in accordance with the unified deployment and requirements of Chongqing, and first requires all Hubei students to return to school. The time for returning to school is April 27. It cannot be advanced or postponed. Other students who do not return to school without receiving notice will be subject to disciplinary and disciplinary actions if they violate regulations.
　　
&quot;Before I returned to school, the counselor called me 10 times!&quot; Hubei students who returned to school early showed up on social media and QQ chat records with the counselor. Before returning to school, Southwest University counselors need to contact the students “one-to-one” to inform them of the arrangements for returning to school, to understand the health information of the students and their living conditions, and to check through the campus APP and health code to ensure that the eligible students return safely school.
According to the &quot;Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of New Coronavirus Pneumonia in Higher Education&quot; of the Ministry of Education, colleges and universities must strictly abide by the 40 relevant regulations on school site management, organization and management, sanitation, cleaning, disinfection, school-related personnel responsibilities, teacher and student protection Including &quot;determination of the list of teachers and students returning to school&quot;, &quot;return to school arrangement&quot;, &quot;teaching place and laboratory management&quot;, &quot;dormitory management&quot;, &quot;library management&quot;, etc.
Before returning to school, students must get in touch with their tutors or counselors. Before returning to school, they should understand the school&#39;s arrangements for check-in dates, check-in procedures, entrance routes, etc .; properly keep travel ticket information, record the boarding time and boarding location; follow the school Arrange in advance to report in batches, and report arrival in time after arriving at the school; truthfully fill in the &quot;Health Status Information Registration Form&quot;; on the day of returning to the school, the school should add a temporary observation point at the entrance and exit of the designated campus; verify the identity and the approved return to school certificate After check-in time), carry out temperature measurement and symptom inquiry and registration; enter the campus according to the prescribed route.
In principle, each student dormitory does not exceed 6 people, and the average per person is not less than 25 square meters; closed management is adopted, and real-name verification and temperature detection are required to enter the dormitory area; visitors are refused during the epidemic prevention and control; the dormitory epidemic day report and zero report system are implemented ; Implement the &quot;three reports a day&quot; system for morning, middle and evening and the system of naming at night; bedding and personal clothes should be dried regularly and washed regularly.
Body temperature test before entering the canteen, people with abnormal body temperature should avoid eating inside; wait in line to maintain a distance of more than 1 meter, wash hands before meals; properly extend the dining time of the canteen, arrange teachers and students to share meals; Take it away at the time, it is recommended to suspend the buffet; encourage packing food to the dormitory; eat in the cafeteria as far as possible, and not face to face, seat spacing is recommended; encourage tableware.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yiling