URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1132063.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300048

Date : 2020-05-03 14:28:00
Title : &quot;Virus maker&quot; defection? Please see three facts
Ariticle : 
Original title: &quot;Virus Maker&quot; defection? Please see three facts
On May 1, Michael, the head of the WHO Health Emergency Program, expressed his belief that the new coronavirus was from nature. On the same day, Horton, editor-in-chief of the international leading medical journal &quot;The Lancet&quot;, said in an interview, &quot;The conspiracy theory of the origin of the virus is very ridiculous.&quot;
For a period of time, some unscrupulous speculators never mentioned China&#39;s contribution and sacrifice in fighting the epidemic, and instead attacked China with a conspiracy theory. This time, the two authoritative voices justified their names, not for the Chinese platform, but for all mankind.
Be an expert in Wuhan Virus Research Institute
　　
When the epidemic suddenly struck, the rapid spread of the virus has made people uneasy, and the rumor has increased the fear of people. Over the past few months, as WHO Director-General Tan Desai said, we have been fighting two outbreaks, &quot;one caused by a virus and the other caused by false information&quot; The impact makes it more difficult to control the spread of the virus.
&quot;The virus originated in the laboratory&quot;, &quot;the epidemic in a country has long been out of control&quot;, no matter how ridiculous the rumors are, there may be severe and lasting consequences for people who fear the virus. No nation is naturally immune to the virus, and no country has its own antibodies to rumors. To break the rumors, we must rely on science and credibility.
According to CNN, the White House is preventing epidemiologist Anthony Fudge from testifying on May 6 to a committee in the House of Representatives, which is investigating how the US government responds to the new coronavirus.
No matter what the consideration is, preventing science from being at the forefront of breaking rumors and letting rumors spread unchecked will undoubtedly cause great damage to the credibility of the government. When the spread of rumors has caused irreparable consequences, it is difficult to regain the convincing ability to break the rumors.
　　
Since the outbreak, scientists from many countries, including China, have never stopped studying viruses. They fought at the forefront of scientific research and raced against the spread of the epidemic in order to free humans from the entanglement of viruses as soon as possible.
But scientific cognition is gradual. Researchers, like every ordinary person, are confronted with the new corona virus for the first time. They must also gradually understand and understand it in accordance with objective laws before they can defeat it. In this process, there will be limitations and deviations. Science allows criticism and supervision, but does not tolerate distortions and rumours.
Recently, some people spread the rumors that the &quot;new crown virus is artificially manufactured&quot; under the pretext of the Nobel Prize winner Ben Shuyou. Ben Shuyou himself dismissed the rumor and pointed out: &quot;A baseless claim like this about the origin of the disease is extremely dangerous and devastating.&quot;
Respecting the original intention of science is the best kindness to science. To study the origin and transmission path of the virus, in order to put forward targeted preventive measures, and strive to make this kind of situation no longer happen. But no matter who is involved in the study, and which countries and regions, they should not be a reason for stigmatization. In the name of false science, the practice of slander will undoubtedly delay the process of scientific cognition. The later science achieves results, the greater the suffering people will suffer.
　　
New Coronary Pneumonia is a common threat to the health of all mankind. Only through concerted efforts can we get out of the mud as soon as possible. And dumping the pan, taking the blame, and discrediting will not stop the spread of the epidemic, but will only create suspicion between nations and countries and affect international cooperation to fight the epidemic.
On April 30, the US National Intelligence Director ’s Office issued a statement saying that the intelligence community agreed with the scientific community ’s broad consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificial and gave a loud slap to the “viral origin conspiracy theory” and “viral artificial theory”.
From the World Health Organization to the Lancet, even the US intelligence agencies are no longer able to look down. Individuals are still happily discrediting China. The reason behind this and the plans are self-evident.
When all countries are struggling to fight the epidemic, people with ulterior motives regard the disaster of all mankind as a tool for political gain. This not only hurts the feelings of the Chinese people, but also puts itself on the opposite side of all mankind.
The US Centers for Disease Control issued a report on May 1, admitting that a number of errors caused the deterioration of the US epidemic. Faced with the status of the world ’s most confirmed and dead cases, is it to give up bad thoughts and work together for the life and health of the people of the country and the world; or to go all out and make the already narrow road narrower? Some &quot;key minorities&quot; should be a bit aware.
The epidemic of viruses can only be cured by science, and the epidemic of rumors can only be broken by the truth.
The destiny of all countries is connected and closely related. Fighting against the epidemic together, the road is not alone!
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu