URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9840253.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500010

Date : 2020-05-04 19:09:00
Title : People&#39;s Daily: Pompeo and Bannon are really a pair of lying treasures
Ariticle : 
Original title: Pompeo and Bannon, really a pair of lying treasures
Pompeo, who jumped up and down, came out tossing again. On the 3rd, US Secretary of State Pompeo accepted an interview with ABC, saying that &quot;there is a lot of evidence&quot; that the new coronavirus came from a laboratory in Wuhan. Bannon, who once served as a senior strategic adviser to the US president, has recently jumped out of his own loneliness. In addition to suggesting that the virus came from a laboratory in Wuhan, he also demanded that China be responsible for compensation for the global outbreak.
What a pair of living treasures! In order to attack China, some American politicians have ignored Sven. It will be said that the virus comes from China, it will be said that China conceals information, it will make China take responsibility, and it will demand compensation from China ... These are all rude rhetoric. No matter how the pattern is renovated, the new bottle is old wine, the key is still downright Fake wine.
Taking the so-called &quot;virus from Wuhan laboratory&quot; as an example, does Pompeo have evidence? No! But he claimed to have, and there is &quot;substantial&quot; evidence. There is really evidence, why not dare to take it out on the spot?
It has long been agreed whether the new coronavirus comes from the laboratory. US chief infectious disease expert Fudge believes that the virus&#39;s genes prove that it does not come from the artificial modification of the laboratory. WHO spokesperson Fadra Shaib said that all known evidence indicates that the new coronavirus originated from animals. Even the Office of the Director of National Intelligence of the United States issued a statement on the official website, agreeing with the broad consensus in the scientific community that &quot;the new coronavirus is not artificial and has not been genetically modified.&quot;
Why do so many scientists and professional organizations present the facts as if they were playing the piano with cattle? The answer is simple. Pompeos know that they are lying, and they also know that the international community knows that they are lying, but they just lie hard and lie all the time. Otherwise, they will find no reason to attack China. Not to gain political self-interest.
Looking at Bannon&#39;s ridiculous remarks, it can be said that none of his accusations against China can stand up to scrutiny, but he can speak out without hesitation. I am afraid that it is not just boring, but a plot to &quot;climb up in politics&quot; &quot;.
In order to achieve the goal of stigmatizing China, some politicians in the United States have no longer any shame. In the face of the fact that they frequently hit their faces, they do not care at all, and their psychological qualities are really &quot;excellent&quot;. They have reached the point where they can&#39;t think about it, and they can use any crude waste. The operation method is nothing more than axe, that is, throwing the pot, for example, throwing the pot to China, WHO, etc. Then discredited, such as accusing China of opaque information about the epidemic. The last thing is to lie, open your eyes and talk nonsense, and you are almost convinced that you are not knowing that the international community is watching jokes.
Politicians with bankrupt personalities say that they have no credibility; politicians who come out of nowhere will end up having their own consequences. The more Pompeo and Bannon, the more joyful they ran on the lying road, the more joke left to the world.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming