URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9588621.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300003

Date : 2020-05-03 00:21:00
Title : A US official said there was a shortage of medical supplies Trump: find out this person to replace her
Ariticle : 
Original title: A US official said there was a shortage of medical supplies Trump: Find out this person and replace her!
On the evening of May 1, local time, US President Trump announced the nomination of the new Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to replace the current Deputy Inspector General Christi Grimm. In a report last month, Green emphasized that American hospitals cannot meet the testing needs of the new coronavirus and face a &quot;serious shortage.&quot; Trump had publicly attacked Green at a press conference.
The US media said that this was Trump&#39;s latest move to contend with the relevant supervisory office. Recently, Trump dismissed the first inspector general of the intelligence agency that reported &quot;Tongwumen&quot;, nominated a White House assistant to oversee the fight against viral bailouts, and took action to prevent another inspector general from taking over as chairman of the new crown epidemic bailout expenditure monitoring group.
Some media criticized that since Trump&#39;s impeachment failed in Congress &quot;Tongwumen&quot;, he has been seeking more power and clearing officials who are considered not loyal enough. Even during the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic, Trump ’s consolidation of power has not stopped.
Green&#39;s report released last month, based on extensive interviews with hospitals across the country, determined that there was a serious shortage of supplies. The report revealed that hundreds of medical centers are working hard to obtain test kits, protective equipment and ventilators. At that time, Trump had been widely criticized for downplaying the threat of the virus and slowing down his actions.
In response to a reporter ’s question on April 6, Trump publicly asked the report author ’s name, “Where did he come from? Inspector General? What is his name?” And instructed his subordinates to “find out this person”.
After learning of Green, Trump claimed that because of his tenure in the Obama administration, he asserted that the report was politically biased. Green has worked in the Office of the Inspector General since Clinton&#39;s time and served in the George W. Bush and Obama administrations. After the former Inspector General stepped down, she took over the office as Deputy Inspector General.
On the evening of the 1st, Trump nominated the US Assistant Prosecutor in Boston, Jason C. Weida, to take over. The White House said in the announcement that he had &quot;supervised many complex investigations in health and other departments.&quot; But Wei Da&#39;s appointment must be confirmed by the Senate before it can take effect.
Editor in charge: Zhu Jiabei