URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9558998.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200075

Date : 2020-05-02 18:51:00
Title : How far is the American prison from hell to social disorder?
Ariticle : 
Original title: How far is social disorder out of American prisons becoming hell?
According to the US Bureau of Justice Statistics, there are nearly 2.3 million detainees in the United States, of which nearly 1.5 million are held in state or federal prisons.
In more than 100 days, the number of infections exceeded one million ... This is the epidemic situation in the United States today.
Millions are only official figures in the United States. However, the actual number of infections is probably much higher than this!
This is not to deliberately hack the United States, but a realistic objective situation. For example, some prisons in the United States have recently exposed a large number of cluster-type infections, and this is just the tip of the iceberg of the prison system.
US media reported on the 29th that more than 400 inmates in California had a positive New Coronavirus test result, making it the most severely affected prison in the US Federal Prison Administration system.
According to data released by the U.S. Federal Prison Administration, as of April 28, 443 of the 1,055 inmates at the Terminal Island Prison in San Pedro, Los Angeles County had a positive New Coronavirus test and another 10 prison administration The personnel test result is positive. Two prisoners have died of new pneumonia in the prison.
Even more terrifying is that just a few days ago, the test results of detainees conducted by the prison systems of Arkansas, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia showed that 3277 prisoners tested positive for the new coronavirus, of which 96 % Are asymptomatic infections, without fever, cough and other related symptoms.
note! 96% of prisoners are asymptomatic infected! Regarding this result, netizens exclaimed: &quot;The group immunization proposed by the United Kingdom has not been realized in American prisons ...&quot;
Medical experts at George Washington University said, &quot;Due to lack of adequate testing and supervision, the actual number of infections in the United States may be much higher than currently known.&quot; University of Texas corrections expert and senior lecturer Michelle Dayge also said, &quot;It is almost certain that American prison institutions underestimate the number of infected persons among detainees.&quot;
With such a high infection rate, it can be said that American prisons have become the &quot;petri dish&quot; of the virus. At present, there are 1,313 inmates and 335 managers in the United States federal prisons who have tested positive for the new crown virus, and 30 inmates have died of new crown pneumonia.
However, do you know the total number of detainees in the United States? According to the US Bureau of Justice Statistics, there are nearly 2.3 million detainees in the United States, of which nearly 1.5 million are held in state or federal prisons. At present, all prisons in the United States are overcrowded, with an average of more than 100 adults serving one sentence in prison, creating the world&#39;s number of criminals and the proportion of the population in two ways!
Since the outbreak, American health officials have continued to demand that the state government adopt social isolation. However, due to the small space and poor conditions in American prisons, real isolation is almost impossible.
So these 2.3 million prisoners are another powerful bomb for the United States, which has already suffered a lot from the epidemic! Once detonated, it is no exaggeration to say that it is enough to plunge the entire American social order into an extremely chaotic situation.
However, how far is this bomb from the actual detonation? No one dares to say when exactly, but the actual situation seems to be very bad ...
Nowadays, prisoners in American prisons are struggling with fear, panic, anger, and sadness every day. The virus-run prisons have been reduced to &quot;human hell&quot;, and various sighing stories happen every day.
For example, William Garrison, a prisoner in Michigan, was sentenced to imprisonment for murder in 1976 when he was only 16 years old. After a 44-year career in prison, he is 60 years old and will be released in early May this year.
Sadly, just before his release, he died on April 13 due to infection with the new crown pneumonia virus ...
I am afraid that such a tragedy would not dare to make such a movie, but it really happened beside the prisoners. It is conceivable that such an event will have &quot;lethal power&quot; to the prisoners in prison!
Desperados are also afraid of viruses! So the prisoners started to act ...
A few days ago, prisoners from the Cook County Prison in Chicago, the United States, have launched a protest. They wrote &quot;Save us&quot;, &quot;Our life is also life&quot; and other distress signals in the windows.
The prisoners hope to be released or transferred. However, their request was rejected by the magistrate ...
Of course, not all prisoners will protest this &quot;gentle&quot; way. In Franklin County Prison, Pennsylvania, detainees launched a hunger strike to protest; a prison in Washington state, hundreds of detainees protested; Lansing Correctional Institution, Kansas, prisoners set fire to the prison, asking the prison to issue masks, etc. Protective materials ...
If this continues, a large-scale prison riot will be triggered. How to do? Let go?
It seems feasible! Recently, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson has indicated that he will release the prisoners early. Hundreds of &quot;fragile&quot; prisoners in New York, Los Angeles and Cleveland have been released.
But is it really a good way to release prisoners? So many prisoners are asymptomatic infected people. If they do not know that they have been infected with the virus, if they return to their homes, they will inevitably spread to their families and then to other people. The released people are most likely to be virus &quot;super spreaders&quot;!
Not only that, but do n’t forget that these people are prisoners! It is very likely that they will become a disruptor of the public order and a major security risk. Just last month, a Florida prisoner was released because of the epidemic. One day after his release, he was charged with committing a murder and sent to prison again ...
Don&#39;t let go? But in today&#39;s situation, no one can alleviate or control the spread of the virus in American prisons, and no one dares or can bear the risk of a large-scale prison riot!
Prisons can no longer be regarded as &quot;siege&quot;, because both inside and outside are equally dangerous! Whether to put it or not, it is the best strategy! The problem of American prisons is completely in a dilemma, and it is a &quot;death buckle&quot;, there is no solution at all!
In this situation, it seems that all the blame should be blamed on the virus. But in fact, this bitter fruit was planted by the US government itself, and it must be swallowed with tears!
Have you ever thought that there are new crown epidemics in more than 200 countries? Why is the situation in the US prisons so severe? !
Reasonable brother thinks that, in addition to the US government under Trump&#39;s continuous response to the epidemic, there is an extremely important reason that the number of American prisons is too much!
As we mentioned above, the United States currently has nearly 2.3 million inmates, ranking first in the world! This is ironic ... a country that has always advertised human rights has a very high crime rate! In a country that promotes &quot;democratic freedom&quot; and even takes &quot;democratic freedom&quot; all over the world as its responsibility, so many people have lost their freedom!
In the &quot;Global Crime and Security Index Rankings&quot; released two years ago, the US ranking has fallen to 81.
Of course, someone will say that the crime rate in the United States is so high, which is directly related to their legal system. The bottom line for the definition of &quot;crime&quot; in the United States is relatively low, and many general violations are likely to be classified as crimes. We do not deny that this is true of the US legal system, but this is by no means the main reason for its high crime rate!
According to a set of data published on the Internet by the &quot;United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime&quot;, the crime data of the United States and the United Kingdom, which are claiming to be a beacon of democracy and freedom, are much higher than that of China, including shooting, robbery, theft, etc The criminal behavior is very prominent, is this also the reason for the legal system?
At the same time, it can also be found that the crime data of the hardcore &quot;allies&quot; of the United States and Britain are also very ugly ...
The high crime rate in the United States is ultimately due to the intensification of domestic social conflicts and the imbalance of the social structure, which has led to a serious gap between the rich and the poor. The low- and middle-end people living in the United States have no hope and vitality. The middle-class life and mental pressure are enormous. Only the capitalists who stand on the top of the pyramid are happy. The long-standing social pattern is a hotbed of crime.
People who have lived in the United States have a deep understanding of their social problems. For example, the rich and poor areas of the United States are quite distinct, and the environmental gap is huge. The majority of the people gathered in the slums are blacks. They either work in low-end service industries, or they make a living by selling drugs, guns, yellow industries and other gray means. Moreover, even if you are not walking in the streets of slums, you dare not go out alone at night.
Coupled with chaotic gun management in the United States, shootings often occur. All Chinese who have been to the United States, without exception, have worried about their own security issues. Especially after the outbreak, the gun shop business was hot, and most of the people rushing to buy were Asians. Because American politicians incited race, they were forced to protect themselves by buying guns.
I&#39;m sorry, I can&#39;t smell the &quot;free sweet&quot; air, nor the smell of hope, only the smell of gunpowder and drugs ...
There is an astonishing set of data that can support the &quot;broken pots&quot; of many American criminals. They seem to have no future and hope here. According to statistics, nearly 67.5% of the prisoners released from the United States will be arrested again within three years, 51.8% will be sentenced to prison for crimes, and the recidivism rate is also the first in the world!
So it can be said that &quot;crime&quot; is already in the mind of many Americans. The nature of the crime is not the &quot;passionate crime&quot; caused by the impulse, but the &quot;criminal thinking&quot; caused by various serious social problems.
In fact, emotionally speaking, the prisoners in American prisons are also very pitiful. Although they have committed various crimes, they have been punished by the law, and now they are still suffering from the virus. What&#39;s more pitiful is that people inside now want them to &quot;get out&quot;, people outside want them to &quot;get back&quot; ...
In the eyes of politicians, they have become hot potato sticking to their hands, which can&#39;t be thrown away and hurt their hands ...
But think about it, really poor, not just Americans in prison? In the United States under the epidemic, Trump boasted of his perfect performance in the epidemic and took his politicians to dump the pot in China; anti-Chinese media incited to echo, the uniformity of Western public opinion camps smeared China and set off a collective carnival; After waves of political brainwashing, a considerable number of people do not think that their governments are not able to respond well to the epidemic. On the contrary, they feel that the lighthouse in the west is still shining extremely, and they choose to ignore the anti-epidemic results achieved by the Chinese people through hard work!
Isn&#39;t the huge American territory like a large &quot;invisible prison&quot;? It can cover people&#39;s eyes and imprison people&#39;s thoughts, which is more terrible and pitiful than the real prison ...
Source: Reasonable children have faces
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming