URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iircuyvi0786279.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100004

Date : 2020-04-30 22:31:00
Title : The Chinese Diplomatic Mission sent dozens of questions this week. Please answer the United States!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Sharp Reference | China Diplomatic Mission sent dozens of questions this week, the United States please answer!
As the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic continues to break through the &quot;upper limit&quot; in the United States, some US politicians have also begun to &quot;show the lower limit&quot; frequently.
Some people, such as Secretary of State Pompeo and Navarro, director of the White House Office of National Trade and Manufacturing Policy, have recently concocted various conspiracy theories in an attempt to sland China.
Facing frequent dirty water from the United States, Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs speakers resolutely launched a counterattack, not only clarifying the facts through a daily press conference, but also actively speaking on overseas social media platforms.
According to Xiaorui&#39;s incomplete statistics, this week from the Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying&#39;s Twitter question to the Geng Shuang press conference, &quot;Long Bow&quot;, and then the Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng faced the US media directly, on different occasions, in different contexts, on different issues Under the setting, Chinese diplomats have questioned the United States more than 20 times on the so-called &quot;outbreak data&quot; and &quot;investigation of the source of the virus&quot; in the United States.
And after all sorts of questions, the US owes the world more than one answer ...
　　
&quot;Why not ask American experts to find out where the new coronavirus first appeared in the United States?&quot;
At noon on April 29, Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying tweeted this question and emphasized that &quot;the American people need answers and the world has the right to know.&quot;
As can be seen from the pictures provided in the tweet, Hua Chunying&#39;s question was directed by US Secretary of State Pompeo-he has recently fanned on Twitter, claiming that China should be investigated.
This is the second time this week that Hua Chunying directly punished Pompeo on Twitter.
The last time was on April 27, in response to Pompeo&#39;s accusation on Fox News Channel that China had concealed the epidemic, Hua Chunying tweeted directly to ask: Who is spreading false news? Are the Republican Senate National Committees and the &quot;gray zone&quot; (an independent news website in the United States) disclosed enough?
Hua Chunying ’s question pointed to the “Anti-China Memorandum” that was previously exposed by the US media. This 57-page memo was fabricated by the National Committee of the Senate of the Republican Party of the United States to “guidance” various election agencies and let them Attack China with various &quot;routines&quot;.
After finishing Pompeo, Hua Chunying tweeted that night and asked Navarro repeatedly: &quot;Is this the famous &#39;Ron Valla&#39; saying? Fake test kit? Hoarding personal protective equipment?&quot;
These three questions are directed at another fallacy of Navarro recently, who accused China of exporting &quot;counterfeit and shoddy test reagents&quot; to the United States and taking advantage of the epidemic for &quot;profiting&quot;.
In the counterattack tweet, Hua Chunying chose to speak with numbers. She pointed out that China and relevant US agencies have cooperated well in the export of anti-epidemic materials, and the quality of exported products conforms to US standards. Provided about 3.5 billion masks, 300 million pairs of gloves, and more than 5,800 ventilators to the United States.
Statistics, facts, and reasoning, from questioning back to opposing smearing and then asking questions, Xiaorui made a rough statistics. In the past week, Hua Chunying sent a total of 17 tweets, of which the topic of &quot;involving the United States&quot; accounted for more than half. It can be described as &quot;full firepower&quot;.
　　
If Hua Chunying launched an “online confrontation” through Twitter, then Geng Shuang, who is in the blue hall of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is facing the prejudices and doubts of foreign media reporters “offline”.
Geng Shuang&#39;s questions about the United States were mainly concentrated in the press conference on the 27th.
On the same day, Geng Shuang also mentioned the &quot;Anti-China Memorandum&quot; prepared by the Senate National Committee of the Republican Party of the United States. He pointed out that the United States said in a word that &quot;China disseminates false information.&quot; ?
On the same day, he also used his strength to sum up the doubts that appeared in some US media reports in three consecutive questions, including when did the epidemic first appear in the US? Has the US government concealed anything? Why are you eager to &quot;spit the pot&quot; to other countries and international organizations?
&quot;On these issues, we hope that the US government can respond to the concerns of its people and the international community in a timely manner, and whether it can also ask WHO to assist in the investigation.&quot; He emphasized.
In fact, from online to offline interactions, from overseas social media to the routine press conference every afternoon, in addition to tacit questions, Geng Shuang and Hua Chunying have two other &quot;Text&quot; and linkage.
For example, Hua Chunying ’s rhetorical tweet on the 29th mentioned “Ron Walla”. Presumably many people will ask, who is this person?
The answer lies in Geng Shuang&#39;s routine statement on April 28.
On the same day, Geng Shuang pointed out that many US media disclosed last year that Navarro had quoted the so-called professional &quot;Ron Walla&quot; in many of his books to criticize and attack China. Later, Navarro himself had to publicly admit that he had fabricated this &quot;anti-China expert&quot;, which shocked the international community.
　　
In addition to asking questions across the air, there are even sitting down face to face.
On the 28th, Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng was interviewed by Janis Mackey Frayer, a senior reporter from the National Broadcasting Corporation (NBC).
In this interview, Le Yucheng answered the questions of American journalists 13 times in a rhetorical question.
For example, when asked whether China supports an international investigation into the source of the virus, Le Yucheng answered with four consecutive questions:
&quot;There is a basis for conducting an international investigation. Why is this investigation directed only at China? Is there any evidence that China has a problem? Why not go to another country to conduct an investigation? If you want to reflect, from a scientific point of view, there are so many confirmed cases and deaths in some countries Cases and spreading cases, are there any problems? ... &quot;
And when it comes to the United States accusing China of the initial response to the epidemic was not timely, Le Yucheng stated that there was only one case in the United States when Wuhan was &quot;closed&quot; on January 23. By the time the United States declared a state of emergency on March 13, more than 1,600 cases had been diagnosed.
Then Le Yucheng asked again: &quot;Can this blame China for its slow response? Where has the time gone?&quot;
In fact, as Chinese diplomats continue to ask questions, the same questions are also being discussed in the White House epidemic briefing, in the US media, and even on the Internet.
For example, on social media, more and more foreign netizens are realizing the problems of the US government&#39;s series of practices.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen