URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9605643.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300022

Date : 2020-05-03 08:22:00
Title : 3.4 million + worldwide! More than 66,000 deaths in the United States, the US Centers for Disease Control admitted
Ariticle : 
Original title: 3.4 million + worldwide! More than 66,000 deaths in the United States, the US Centers for Disease Control admitted
According to statistics from Johns Hopkins University
As of 6:32 on May 3, Beijing time
A total of 3,408,869 cases were diagnosed globally
242,296 deaths
More than 66,000 deaths in the United States
Trump changed his tongue again
At present, the United States is still the epicenter of the global epidemic. According to statistical data from Johns Hopkins University, as of 6:32 on May 3, Beijing time, the cumulative number of diagnoses in the United States broke 1.12 million cases, reaching 1127712 cases; the cumulative death cases exceeded 66,000 cases, reaching 66075.
　　
According to Reuters reports, on May 1, local time, US President Trump appeared to have raised his estimate of the death toll of the new US crown virus. He said at an event in the White House that he hopes that the number of Americans dying of the new corona virus will not exceed 100,000, which is higher than the upper limit of the number of deaths he had previously expected.
On April 27, Trump said at the White House epidemic briefing that the number of deaths due to the new coronavirus in the United States is about 60,000 to 70,000. However, just a few days later, Trump changed his voice and said, &quot;Hopefully, our death toll will be less than 100,000, even though this is a terrible number.&quot;
There are different predictions about how many Americans will die from respiratory diseases caused by the new coronavirus. American infectious disease scientist Fodge said in March that the United States should prepare for the death of 100,000 people.
　　
On May 1st, the official website of the US Centers for Disease Control published an article by Anne Schuchat, chief deputy director, saying that the United States missed the opportunity to delay the spread of the new coronavirus. At that time, the United States was very slow in understanding the status of imported cases in Europe, which caused an accelerated outbreak of the epidemic in the United States.
Shuchat said that the United States has very limited testing capabilities in late February and has not yet announced a travel ban on countries such as Europe. These reasons have led to a surge in US cases. &quot;We obviously did not realize all the imported cases at that time.&quot;
She pointed out that in February alone, 2 million passengers arrived in the United States from Italy or other European countries, and the US government did not introduce a travel ban against Europe until March 11. &quot;I think our travel warning time should be earlier,&quot; Shuchat said. &quot;In the event of an outbreak in Europe, a wide range of travelers from Europe will indeed accelerate the spread of the US epidemic.&quot;
She also mentioned that from February to early March, more than 100 people on nine Nile cruise ships tested positive in the United States, a figure that almost doubled the number of known cases in the United States at the time. &quot;In retrospect, taking action earlier may delay further outbreaks (of the US epidemic), or delay the outbreak speed.&quot;
　　
US media reported on May 1st that the White House prevented the New Crown Virus Working Group expert Fuch from attending a hearing in the US House of Representatives, but he was allowed to participate in a hearing in the Senate.
The release of the two messages is only a few hours apart. According to NBC News, Lamar Alexander, chairman of the US Senate Health Committee, said the White House will allow Fuchs to participate in the hearing of the Senate Health Committee on May 12.
Earlier, US media said that the US House Appropriations Committee planned to hold a hearing on the government ’s response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic on May 6, but a Democratic spokesman said Fawchi was prevented from participating by the White House. &quot;Daily Mail&quot; specifically mentioned in the report: The Senate is led by the Republican Party, while the House of Representatives is the Democratic majority.
　　
According to CNN New York, New York Governor Como said at a local news conference on the 1st that local time has added 299 new deaths in the past 24 hours, with a total of 18909 deaths. The number of new hospitalizations and the number of intubation treatments both showed a downward trend. The number of new hospitalizations dropped to 883 on the same day, and remained below 1,000 for consecutive days.
New York State announced new results after the expanded antibody testing range. Among the 15,000 samples, 12.3% were positive. New York State stated that based on the sample, at least 2.4 million people in the state were infected with the new coronavirus.
In New York City, 19.9% of the sample was positive. In the districts of the city, the Bronx is 27.6%; Brooklyn is 19.2%; SI is 19.2%; Queens is 18.4%; Manhattan is 17.3%. Como said the New York State government will investigate why the Bronx district has such a high positive rate.
　　
According to US media reports on the 2nd, of the 2,200 employees of a pork processing plant in Tyson Food in Indiana, 1,900 people were tested for viruses, of which 890 were diagnosed, accounting for about 40 of the total employees of the plant. %. The plant closed on April 25, and Tyson Foods announced on Friday that it will restart the plant next week.
Earlier, due to the epidemic, many of the two largest meat processing plants in the United States, Tyson Foods and Smithfield Foods, were closed. Earlier this week, Trump signed an executive order requiring meat processing plants to continue operations to keep the food supply chain running.
　　
　　
According to the British Ministry of Health and Social Security, as of 9 a.m. local time on May 2, local new coronary pneumonia cases were newly diagnosed with 4,806 new cases, a total of 182,260 cases. As of 5 pm local time on May 1st, there were 28,131 deaths and 621 new cases in a single day. The data includes the number of deaths from infections outside the hospital.
On the same day, the fiancee of the British Prime Minister Johnson, Simonds, posted a photo of his four-day-old son on the social platform. The Prime Minister ’s couple named the child after Johnson ’s grandfather Wilfred.
It is understood that the baby&#39;s name is Wilfred Laurie Nicholas Johnson, Laurie and Nicholas are both middle names, and Laurie is the name of his grandfather, Simmonds. Nicholas was the name of the two doctors who saved his life when Johnson was hospitalized at St Thomas Hospital-both named Nicholas.
Simmonds expressed his gratitude to the medical team on social media: &quot;Thank you medical staff for their due diligence to take care of me and my children. I am so happy and moved.&quot; The boy was on April 29 at 9 am Click here to come to this world. Johnson accompanies the whole process, and the production process is very smooth.
Johnson is the third prime minister in British history to succeed in office. Previously, when Blair was in office in 1997, his wife gave birth to her young son Leo; in 2010, when Cameron was prime minister, the wife gave birth to her daughter Florence. Both Blair and Cameron have four children. Johnson and his second wife also have 4 children, and Wilfred is his fifth child.
　　
　　
French Minister of Health Veron said on the 2nd that in view of the need to prevent and control the new crown epidemic, the French government plans to extend the health emergency that expires on May 23 for two months to July 24.
The French government convened a meeting of ministers on the same day to discuss a bill on extending the state of health emergency. Wei Lang said after the meeting that it was “too early” to lift the state of health emergency on May 23, and the abrupt cancellation of the current prevention and control measures may lead to another outbreak of the epidemic.
The bill will be submitted to the French Senate for consideration on the 4th, followed by the National Assembly for consideration.
According to a press release issued by the French Health Agency on the 2nd, there were 166 new deaths in the new crown in the past 24 hours, with a total of 24,760 deaths. Among them, there were 15,487 deaths in hospitals, an increase of 118 in the past 24 hours; social medical institutions, including nursing homes for the disabled, had 9273 deaths, an increase of 48 in the past 24 hours. According to data released on the French government website on the same day, 794 new cases were diagnosed in France in the past 24 hours, and a total of 130,979 cases were diagnosed.
France declared a state of health emergency on March 24, with a period of two months. In a state of health emergency, the government may restrict or prohibit people from traveling, take isolation measures, restrict assembly activities, and order the temporary closure of enterprises and institutions.
　　
　　
According to Agence France-Presse, Spanish Prime Minister Sanchez said on the 2nd that with the gradual relaxation of restrictions, in order to prevent the spread of a new round of new crown virus, Spain will force people to wear masks when taking public transportation from the 4th.
The Madrid government has “strongly recommended” the use of masks. From the 4th, 6 million masks will be distributed nationwide and 7 million masks will be provided to local governments.
Spain reported 216,582 confirmed cases and 25,100 deaths in Spain on the 2nd. From May 2nd, Spain&#39;s national &quot;foot ban&quot; has been further relaxed, and people can go out of the house for physical exercise and other activities for a short period of time. The time to go out is divided according to age.
　　
　　
According to the Russian epidemic prevention command on the 2nd, in the past 24 hours, Russia added 9623 new cases of newly diagnosed crowns, creating a record of the number of new cases in a single day, with a total of 124,054 cases diagnosed.
The data shows that there are 57 new death cases in Russia, with a total of 1222 deaths; 1793 new cases were cured, and a total of 15013 cases were cured.
Facing the increasing number of cases, people in Moscow region, Trans-Baikal region and other places have been forced to wear masks.
Moscow Mayor Sobyanin said that the actual number of people infected with the new coronavirus in Moscow may account for 2% of the entire urban population, or about 250,000 people. So far, more than 60,000 people have been diagnosed by virus testing. He said that the current domestic isolation policy has curbed the outbreak of the epidemic.
The Russian Ministry of Health believes that there is currently no evidence that Russia ’s epidemic has entered a stable period, and it is not realistic to lift home isolation immediately after the epidemic peaks.
　　
Moscow Mayor Sobyanin said in an interview with the media that there are about 2,000 medical workers in Moscow who have been infected with the new coronavirus, and about 1,000 people are still in the state of infection.
Sobyanin said that Moscow recently conducted a large-scale detection of new coronavirus antibodies in the city&#39;s medical and health system, and about 25,000 medical workers have been tested, of which about 2,000 people have detected viral antibodies, which means they Once infected with the new coronavirus, about half of them have been cured, while the other half are in an infected state.
Sobyanin pointed out that this also shows that doctors belong to high-risk groups and need to be systematically tested to create good working conditions and higher wages for them.
　　
On May 2 local time, the Russian Ministry of National Defense announced that the current number of Russian military personnel infected with new coronary pneumonia has risen to 1,177 cases, an increase of 78 cases from the previous day. Of these, 345 were treated in hospitals affiliated to the Russian Ministry of Defense, 317 were treated in isolation at military service sites, 10 were treated in civil health facilities, and 505 were isolated at home. So far, 145 people have recovered.
In addition, there were 1195 new coronavirus test results among Russian military school students, an increase of 21 from the previous day.
　　
　　
The Times of India quoted Agence France-Presse on the 2nd as saying that India ’s Olympic Association President Nalindell Batra said that after the global new crown virus pandemic eased, India will step up its bid to host the 2032 Olympic Games and other international events.
Batra, who also serves as the president of the International Hockey Federation, said that after hosting the Commonwealth Games for 10 years, India can learn lessons, but will not be intimidated.
India has sent a letter to the International Olympic Committee expressing its willingness to bid, but bidding to host the 2026 Youth Olympic Games, India faces competition from Thailand, Russia and Colombia; bid to host the 2032 Olympic Games, India faces competition from Queensland, Australia, Shanghai, China, and Seoul, South Korea Pyongyang, North Korea (joint bid).
Batra said that the &quot;document preparation work&quot; for the bid to host the 2032 Olympic Games has already started, but because of the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic, this work is currently frozen. The final decision may be made by 2025.
Beijing Daily (ID: Beijing_Daily) Comprehensive CCTV News, Xinhua News Agency, Overseas Network, Global Network, etc.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern