URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9667434.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300047

Date : 2020-05-03 15:12:00
Title : &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; got another report to discredit China? !
Ariticle : 
Original title: &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; got another report to discredit China? !
The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and embassies and consulates have repeatedly sternly dismissed some Western media and politicians as they have recently flaunted the so-called &quot;China conceals the epidemic theory&quot;.
&quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; finds evidence that &quot;China concealed the epidemic&quot;? Australia&#39;s &quot;Daily Telegraph&quot; reported in a report on the 2nd that the media obtained an investigation report from the &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; &quot;showing that China deliberately concealed the information on the new crown pneumonia epidemic&quot; and accused China of &quot;undermining international transparency.&quot; After the report was released, it triggered a continuing hype in the Western media. The US Fox News website said on the 3rd that US intelligence has not confirmed that the report actually exists. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and embassies and consulates have repeatedly sternly dismissed some Western media and politicians as they have recently flaunted the so-called &quot;China conceals the epidemic theory&quot;.
The &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; is composed of intelligence agencies from the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Australia&#39;s &quot;Daily Telegraph&quot; stated that they obtained a total of 15 pages of investigation reports. The document claims that research has shown that the new coronavirus may have originated from the Wuhan Virus Research Institute. The report also accused China of covering up the relevant news of the outbreak, destroying laboratory data, and denying that the virus exists from person to person. The report also lists a timeline for China&#39;s response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, accusing China of inappropriate response to the epidemic. The US Fox News website said on the 3rd that US intelligence has not confirmed that the report actually exists.
　　 
Since the outbreak of the new pneumonia outbreak in Western countries, some media and politicians have continued to accuse China of concealing the outbreak. In terms of the origin of the virus, the Western media has not linked the New Coronavirus to the Wuhan Virus Research Institute for the first time. The World Health Organization (WHO) has held a press conference on May 1, local time, emphasizing that &quot;after constantly listening to the opinions of countless scientists,&quot; it has concluded that &quot;it is very certain that this virus originated from nature.&quot; The Office of the Director of the National Intelligence Agency also issued a statement on the official website that the intelligence community agrees with the scientific community ’s broad consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified. In addition, Australian Prime Minister Morrison stated on May 1 when he was asked about the remarks made by US President Trump about the &quot;new crown virus originated from the Wuhan Laboratory&quot;, saying that he did not see strong evidence to prove this.
Academician Gao Fu, director of the China Disease Control Center and a member of the high-level expert group of the Health and Health Commission, said in an interview with the media last month that scientists cannot say no There is a person-to-person phenomenon. On January 19th, the high-level expert group already recognized that the new coronavirus is very &quot;effective&quot; from person to person during the internal seminar in Wuhan. He emphasized that the work of public health experts is not enough to make guesses based on experience. The most important thing is to find hard facts and make informed judgments.
Before some Western media and politicians “spilled dirty water” on China, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs detailed the timeline for several times since the end of December last year. The main facts about international cooperation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China has stated on many occasions that China has always maintained an open, transparent and responsible attitude on the prevention and control of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. The Chinese side reported the epidemic situation to WHO as soon as possible, shared the gene sequence of the new coronavirus with other countries in the world at the first time, and cooperated with the international community to prevent and control the epidemic.
The Australian media said that the &quot;Five Eyes Alliance&quot; report also highlighted the so-called &quot;Chinese ambassador to Australia&#39;s economic coercion against Australia&quot; topic, which confirmed that China has prevented the international community from conducting independent investigations on the source of the virus. However, the Chinese embassy in Australia has been published on the official website, and the Chinese ambassador to Australia has recorded interviews with Australian media on the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. A spokesman for the embassy in Australia said that when the ambassador had spoken with the Secretary-General of the Australian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, he sternly rejected Australia ’s concerns about his position in an interview with the Australian Financial Review and asked Australia to let go of ideological bias Stop political manipulation and do more in favor of the development of bilateral relations.
In an exclusive interview with the National Broadcasting Corporation on April 28, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng stated that China is honest and open about international investigations and supports scientific research exchanges among scientists, including summarizing lessons learned. China is opposed to putting China on the dock without any evidence, presuming guilt, and then looking for evidence through a so-called international investigation. China is firmly opposed to this presumption of guilt.
According to the Global New Coronary Pneumonia Data Real-Time Statistics System released by Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of 13:00, May 3, Beijing time, there have been 1,133,069 cases of new coronary pneumonia in the United States. The &quot;five-eye alliance&quot; confirmed cases in other countries are: 18500 cases in the UK, 57927 cases in Canada, 6799 cases in Australia, and 1487 cases in New Zealand. It is not difficult to see that while the number of newly diagnosed new pneumonia in Western countries continues to grow, the accusations against China have also grown rapidly. Many public opinion believes that the current voice against China in some countries is largely for the purpose of &quot;dumping the pot.&quot;
Le Yucheng told the National Broadcasting Corporation on April 28 that some politicians have now greatly politicized the issue of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, which China does not want to see. Under the current situation, we should unite as one, fight the epidemic and overcome the difficulties, instead of blaming each other for political manipulation. Le Yucheng said in an interview that it is well known that intelligence from the US intelligence service has caused disasters to the world many times. He emphasized that China ’s disclosure of data is open, transparent, candid, and truthful. It has always stood the principle of being responsible for history, the people, and the deceased, and can stand the test. On the contrary, some countries describe the new coronary pneumonia as influenza, which is concealment.
Global Times-Global Network / Li Meng
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming