URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9698673.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400016

Date : 2020-05-03 19:35:00
Title : New corona virus leaked from the laboratory? How can it be! Four reasons for American virus experts
Ariticle : 
Original title: New Corona virus leaked from the laboratory? How can it be! Four reasons to see American virus experts →
&quot;Business Insider&quot; reported on the 2nd that Jonna Mazet, an epidemiologist at the University of California, Davis, who trained and cooperated with the Wuhan Virus Research Institute, believed that the spread of the new coronavirus is highly unlikely It came from a laboratory leak and listed four main reasons.
Reason one: laboratory samples do not match the new coronavirus
The article pointed out that after Jona Mazette&#39;s team sequenced the new coronavirus, Shi Zhengli, a researcher at the Wuhan Virus Research Institute who had previously worked with her, immediately went to check the experimental records and compared the new coronavirus and the previous team&#39;s findings on bats. The genetic information of other coronaviruses was compared and it was found that they did not match.
At the same time, Mazette and Shi Zhengli also emphasized that they had never detected other viruses related to the new coronary pneumonia outbreak.
Reason two: The laboratory implements strict safety protocols
Mazete pointed out that some people had previously questioned the safety of the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, but she believed that whether it was in the laboratory or at the sampling site, the work of Chinese researchers was beyond reproach.
She also said that the protection work of laboratory researchers is in place, and at the same time, when researching samples, researchers only use inactivated, non-infectious samples.
Reason three: New coronavirus is the latest virus outbreak in zoonotic diseases
The report also said that experts pointed out that the outbreak of the new type of coronary pneumonia is not due to leakage, but more likely because the new coronary pneumonia is the latest disease spread from animal hosts to humans.
Reason four: ordinary people are more likely to be exposed to live viruses than researchers
In addition, Mazete said that the new coronavirus is not the fourth cause of leakage from the laboratory, because ordinary people are more likely to be exposed to live viruses than researchers. She believes that caves and field environments where bats are collected are more dangerous for ordinary people, because researchers use personal protective equipment (PPE) when collecting samples, but ordinary people may not necessarily use them.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu