URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-29/doc-iirczymi9086931.shtml
ID : SINA2020042900054

Date : 2020-04-29 19:32:00
Title : Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang&#39;s Regular Press Conference on April 29, 2020
Ariticle : 
Original title: Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang ’s Regular Press Conference on April 29, 2020
Xinhua News Agency reporter: Last night, the BRICS countries held a special foreign ministers&#39; meeting in response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. How does China evaluate the outcome of this meeting? What significance does the meeting have for the international community to cooperate in fighting the epidemic situation?
Geng Shuang: On April 28, the BRICS countries held a special foreign ministers&#39; meeting to deal with the new coronary pneumonia epidemic through video connection. State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi attended the meeting and delivered an important speech.
State Councilor Wang Yi introduced a series of anti-epidemic measures taken by China under President Xi Jinping ’s personal command and personal deployment, expounded four important propositions of China ’s active promotion of international anti-epidemic cooperation, and proposed that all parties should adhere to multilateralism and improve global governance ; Persist in the same boat and work together to overcome the epidemic situation; Persist in solidarity and cooperation, gather strong synergy; Persist in pioneering and advancing BRICS cooperation.
At the meeting, State Councilor Wang Yi and the foreign ministers of Russia, India, South Africa, and Brazil exchanged in-depth views on major issues such as adhering to multilateralism, fighting the epidemic together, and deepening BRICS cooperation, and reached consensus on a series of issues. The five countries agreed that the BRICS countries should strengthen unity and cooperation, support each other in formulating and implementing corresponding anti-epidemic strategies based on their national conditions, strengthen information sharing on epidemic situations, exchange in-depth anti-epidemic experience, and effectively carry out cooperation in drug and vaccine research and development. Agree to strengthen coordination of macroeconomic policies, maintain cooperation within the framework of the United Nations, the G20, and jointly safeguard the stable development of the world economy. The five countries all support public health and safety cooperation in a more prominent position on the basis of the &quot;three-wheel drive&quot; cooperation in economic, trade, financial, political security, and cultural and cultural exchanges, and promote the success of the St. Petersburg Leaders&#39; Meeting this year. Most members made it clear that they should firmly support multilateralism, support the core position of the United Nations in the international system, support WHO&#39;s leadership in global anti-epidemic cooperation, and oppose the stigma and politicization of epidemic situations.
The BRICS countries are an important mechanism for cooperation among emerging powers. At a critical moment in the global anti-epidemic era, the BRICS countries successfully held a special foreign ministers ’meeting and sent out a positive signal from the five countries to strengthen solidarity and cooperation and fight the epidemic together, which is of special significance. China is willing to continue to promote the five countries to uphold the BRICS spirit, jointly build a copper wall and iron wall to fight against the epidemic, open up the development prospects of win-win cooperation, and promote the construction of a community of human destiny.
CCTV reporter: Not long ago, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed concern about the establishment of a biological laboratory in the former Soviet Union by the United States. Recently, some overseas media have disclosed that the relevant laboratories are actually completely led by the United States, and the United States Department of Defense has issued instructions to study dangerous diseases targeted at specific groups of people, and then study many research projects that are prohibited in the United States. Does China have any comments?
Geng Shuang: We have taken note of the statement of the Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson and related reports. The United States has established a number of biological laboratories in the former Soviet Union countries, but it has kept quiet about its functions, uses, and safety factors, which deeply worried local people and neighboring countries. It is understood that some local people strongly urge the closure of related laboratories. It is hoped that the United States will take a responsible attitude, face up to the concerns of the international community and the lives, health and safety of local people, and take practical measures to eliminate the doubts of the international community.
China Daily reporter: Recently, the US International Committee on Religious Freedom issued its 2020 annual report, which accused China of religious freedom. What&#39;s your opinion?
Geng Shuang: China is a country ruled by law. The Chinese government protects citizens ’freedom of religious belief according to law, and people of all ethnic groups in China enjoy full freedom of religious belief according to law. At present, there are nearly 200 million religious believers in China, more than 380,000 religious teaching staff, about 5,500 religious organizations, and more than 140,000 religious activities registered in accordance with the law. No matter how the US side discredits and smears, these facts cannot be changed. At the same time, like other countries, China will never allow anyone to engage in illegal or criminal activities under the pretext of religion.
The so-called committee you mentioned has always been full of political prejudice against China. The reports that have been published over the years to discredit China&#39;s religious policies are not worth refuting. We urge the US to respect basic facts, abandon arrogance and prejudice, stop the wrong practice of publishing relevant reports year after year, and stop using religious issues to interfere in China&#39;s internal affairs.
BBC reporter: I heard that a North Korean government delegation went to Beijing. Could you brief us on the situation? What is the purpose of this visit?
Geng Shuang: Now you are practicing to ask questions in Chinese? (Reporter nods)
I don&#39;t understand what you said.
&quot;Australian&quot; reporter: Yesterday I asked two Canadians, Cumming Kai and Michael, who were held in custody for more than 500 days. But the press conference record on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday did not contain this part. As a resident journalist newly arrived in Beijing, I want to know why some of the questions are online, but some are not. How did you decide?
Geng Shuang: Yesterday, the two of us really had a relatively long exchange. I do n’t know how many reports you made about our communication after the exchange. Can I ask? (Reporter is silent) Our exchanges are 20 minutes together. How much did you write about this in the report? Did you write everything I said in your report? (The reporter is still silent)
Of course, you have the right to decide, because that is the report you wrote. For the same reason, this is the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will decide how to reflect the situation at the press conference. In addition, if you take a closer look at the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we never said that this is a transcript of the press conference.
Do you want to know the current situation of Kang Mingkai and Michael? If you want to know, I can also give you the answer. (Reporter does not respond)
Shenzhen Satellite TV reporter: According to reports, a US State Department spokesman said on the 27th that the United States is ready to recognize Israel ’s sovereignty over parts of the West Bank, but it requires the Israeli government to initiate further negotiations with the Palestinian side. What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: China is concerned about the recent plans to annex some of the occupied Palestinian territory in the West Bank, which violates international law and Security Council Resolution No. 2334. It is hoped that the parties concerned will not take actions that will intensify the conflict between Palestine and Israel. The international community should play a constructive role, intensify efforts to advance the political process, adhere to the &quot;two-state plan&quot;, and promote the resumption of peace talks between Palestine and Israel at an early date.
Reporter from Beijing Daily: The Joint Working Group of Jiangxi Province to Uzbekistan returned to China on April 28. Can you briefly introduce the work of the expert group in Ukraine?
Geng Shuang: The Joint Working Group of Jiangxi Province in China to Uzbekistan is composed of experts in prevention and control, diagnosis and treatment, traditional Chinese medicine and overseas Chinese affairs, and stays in Uzbekistan for 12 days. The working group visited nearly half of Wuzhou City, covering all areas with severe epidemics. It held several meetings with the Ukrainian Ministry of Health and officials from various places. Experience, hold knowledge lectures and training, and present anti-epidemic materials and prevention materials to Uzbekistan.
The Ukrainian side spoke highly of the Chinese working group. President Mirziyoev sent a special letter to President Xi Jinping to express his gratitude. The Minister of Health issued medals and awards to the working group. The relevant city government officials all expressed their sincere gratitude to the Chinese government and people. The Ukrainian medical staff showed great interest in the new coronary pneumonia diagnosis and treatment plan introduced by the working group, hoping to introduce Chinese medicine to treat patients with new coronary pneumonia. Ukrainian mainstream media continued to follow up reports on related activities, generating enthusiastic responses, and some reports received millions of hits. The Ukrainian people have expressed that China&#39;s help is precious in difficult times.
During his stay in Ukraine, the working group also worked closely with the Chinese embassy and consulate in Ukraine to visit and congratulate overseas Chinese, Chinese-funded institutions and foreign students in Ukraine, send 6,000 &quot;health packs&quot;, provide prevention and control consultation guidance, and present epidemic prevention materials and condolences. The care and warmth sent to the motherland.
Faced with the epidemic, no one is an isolated island. China will uphold the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind, continue to increase mutual support with Central Asian countries including Uzbekistan, deepen cooperation in the field of health care, and build confidence and strength for an early victory over the epidemic.
BBC reporter: Keep using Chinese. China announced that the &quot;two sessions&quot; will be held on May 21 and May 22. I know that this is not the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but can you tell me that this year&#39;s &quot;two sessions&quot; are the same as usual? For example, do representatives need to be isolated in Beijing? Have so many delegates come to the Great Hall of the People?
Geng Shuang: You also said just now that this should not be answered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do n’t know the exact situation. But I think, affected by the epidemic situation, this year&#39;s &quot;two sessions&quot; will be somewhat different from the previous years.
Reuters reporter: You just said that due to the impact of the epidemic, the arrangements for the &quot;two sessions&quot; this year will be different from the past. Can you tell me the specific difference? Including whether foreign guests and foreign journalists will be invited? What isolation measures will China take?
Geng Shuang: Your questions are very reasonable. Unfortunately, I cannot give you an authoritative answer here. I suggest that, first, you can ask the competent department for inquiries, and second, you can wait for a while, and news about the arrangements will be released in due course.
Surging News Reporter: According to reports, Navarro, director of the White House Trade and Manufacturing Policy Office, has repeatedly claimed that China has concealed the epidemic, causing the virus to spread to the whole world. China also hoards medical supplies in order to make huge profits. Bai Bangrui, director of the China Strategy Center at the American Hudson Institute, said Navarro ’s remarks did not match President Trump ’s position and was wrong, and urged him to amend it. what opinions do the Chinese have on this issue?
Geng Shuang: I said that yesterday, the person of Navarro has always lie, and it seems that they can&#39;t even look down on themselves now.
&quot;Australian&quot; reporter: China claims to be a country ruled by law. I want to ask a legal question that I encountered after coming to Beijing. Last weekend and last weekend, when I went to the park, a policeman told me that according to the law, foreign journalists are not allowed to enter. Do you understand this law?
Geng Shuang: I haven&#39;t heard of it. You should ask the police at that time, since he stopped you, you should ask him, &quot;Which law are you citing?&quot;
Follow-up: I went to the park three times, and I asked them every time, and the experience was the same. At first it was a low-ranking policeman. He checked my passport without any problems until he saw me holding a journalist visa, and then I had to wait for half an hour when his superior came. He said, &quot;Hello, you are the media. You have to get permission to enter the park according to the regulations.&quot; I said, I have never heard of the relevant regulations, so I went back and forth many times. Finally, he told me that I must obtain permission from the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau and the Tiananmen District Management Committee.
Geng Shuang: Which park are you talking about?
The reporter replied: Zhongshan Park. Later, I went to the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau, and they said there was no such provision. I went to the Tiananmen District Management Committee again, and they said no. I went back to the policeman at the time. They said that there were rules and I could not enter. what is the problem? Can you tell me what is going on?
Geng Shuang: Quite a story! (Reporter laughs)
The Information Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the competent department for foreign media and foreign journalists stationed in China. We are committed to providing convenience and support for your normal news reporting work in China, including your life. If you encounter any problems in this process, you can tell us. Of course, it is one way to reflect at the press conference, but you can also find my colleagues through other ways. I think they will contact you. If you have any questions or concerns, you can tell them, they will go to the relevant departments to ask and understand.
Follow-up: I have already found your colleagues, and they said that there is no such requirement. Can you study this? Or can you provide a certificate saying: &quot;The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People&#39;s Republic of China allows this reporter to go to the park&quot;, so I can go to the park this weekend. (Reporter laughs)
Geng Shuang: What is the purpose of asking this question today? Do you want to solve your problem of going to the park? Do you still want to question that China has not managed journalists according to law? If your purpose is the first one and you want to go to Zhongshan Park, you can tell my colleague that my colleague will assist you as much as possible. If you encounter any obstacles, try to help you as much as possible.
If the purpose of your question is to question whether China has any prejudice against foreign journalists, is it not governing the country according to law? Then I think your starting point may be a bit off.
In addition, I tell you frankly, Bill, you have the right to ask questions and speak at the press conference, but this is not a suitable occasion to solve the problems encountered in your personal life. If you encounter such a problem, you can report it to my colleagues, but you use the press conference to complain about some obstacles in your personal life. I think this is not a very suitable occasion to solve this problem.
My colleague will contact you after the meeting, okay.
Reuters reporter: Today, the Australian Prime Minister said that it is reasonable to conduct an independent investigation on the source of the new coronavirus, and it does not target a specific country. What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: You all started showing Chinese today? (Reporter laughs)
At the press conference yesterday, I had a more in-depth exchange with the Australian reporter on this issue. The Chinese position is very clear. If you want, you can check the relevant situation at the press conference yesterday.
Reuters reporter: The Chinese Embassy in Australia said today that China never plays tricks, but if someone wants to play such tricks, we have to accompany them. What does this mean?
Geng Shuang: On what occasion and through whom did the Chinese Embassy in Australia speak? I do n’t understand. Is it a news report? Still posted on the website?
Reporter: This is a statement.
Geng Shuang: I have not heard of it.
Reuters reporter: Many media have reported that South Korea and the United States said that North Korea ’s top leader may have avoided the new crown epidemic at a certain location. Does China agree with this statement?
Geng Shuang: Who is this report? Is it you Reuters?
Reporter: What is China&#39;s view on Kim Jong-un ’s health?
Geng Shuang: I have been answering similar questions these two days. Many media, especially Western media, have reported on this. I have been saying, I do n’t know where the sources of these reports are and where they came from. As for the specific issues you care about, I have no information to provide here.
Reporter: I know you have news on hand but it is not convenient to disclose it at the press conference. Do these news reassure you or worry you? How would you describe how you feel about the news?
Geng Shuang: You asked my feeling, right? (Reporter laughs)
I tell you, China and North Korea are close neighbors connected by mountains and rivers. China is willing to work with the DPRK to promote the continuous development of China-DPRK relations.
BBC reporter: The head of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade expressed his protest to the Chinese Embassy in Australia regarding the Chinese ambassador&#39;s boycott of Australian goods. Subsequently, the Chinese embassy issued a statement mentioning the discussions between the two sides. The Australian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said that the Australian side would not comment on this, because the announcement of the talks violated diplomatic etiquette.
Geng Shuang: In fact, on this issue, that is, the Chinese ambassador to Australia ’s relevant position when interviewed by the Australian media, I already introduced the situation at the press conference yesterday, and answered the questions. You can check the records of yesterday.
Here I want to reiterate that the so-called “China ’s economic coercion of Australia” by the Australian side is unfounded. With the current impact of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic on the world economy, China is willing to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the world, help each other, overcome difficulties, and contribute to human health and well-being. At the same time, we also hope that other countries can work with China to do more things that are conducive to international cooperation and mutual trust.
Reuters reporter: Just now you said that you can introduce the current situation of two detained Canadians. Can you tell us about it?
Geng Shuang: China has stated its position on the Kang Mingkai and Michael cases many times. The cases of these two persons are being handled according to law. The Chinese case-handling agency has always handled affairs according to law, and the legal rights of the two have been fully guaranteed. The Canadian Embassy in China has visited the two on many occasions.
Recently, according to the needs of epidemic prevention work, in order to ensure the safety of detainees, relevant Chinese departments have temporarily suspended consular visits to detainees, and will resume after the epidemic has eased. It is understood that at present, Kang and Mai are in good health, and China has always protected the lawful rights and interests of the two according to law.
&quot;Australian News&quot; reporter: We also discussed the question of the investigation yesterday. Don&#39;t worry about this proposal anymore. Can you tell me what kind of investigations China can accept? What does it look like? Who will investigate?
Geng Shuang: We had a full exchange yesterday and discussed for a long time. I think China ’s position should be very clear. I do n’t need to add anything here.
Follow-up: It is not a proposal against Australia. Will China be interested in some form of investigation so that the international community can better learn from the epidemic?
Geng Shuang: What I can tell you is that the international community should unite and cooperate to overcome the epidemic as soon as possible. As for the question of inquiry you mentioned, I have fully stated China&#39;s position yesterday.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen