URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/zx/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9772802.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400032

Date : 2020-05-04 11:14:00
Title : Peking University team&#39;s heavy research achievements: Glycyrrhizin can inhibit the replication of new coronavirus
Ariticle : 
Original title: Glycyrrhizin can inhibit the replication of new coronavirus! Peking University team discloses heavy research results
Glycyrrhizin can inhibit the replication of new coronavirus, which is the latest research result of Peking University research team. The reporter was informed on May 3 that the team of Xie Zhengwei of Peking University and the team of Qin Zhengfeng of the Academy of Military Medical Sciences published the &quot;An artificial intelligence system reveals liquiritin inhibits SARSCoV-2 by mimicking type I interferon&quot; The intelligent system shows that glycyrrhizin inhibits SARSCoV-2) research papers by mimicking type I interferon.
The study found that glycyrrhizin, one of the main components of licorice, can inhibit the replication of SARS-CoV-2 in Vero cells through its self-developed artificial intelligence drug efficacy prediction system. The EC50 is 2.39µM. The changes in the transcriptome revealed the potential antiviral mechanism of glycyrrhizin, and evaluated the safety of glycyrrhizin at the mouse level, which laid the foundation for its patentability.
The outbreak of pneumonia (COVID-19) caused by the infection of the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has been listed as a public health emergency of international concern by the World Health Organization. There are 10,000 deaths and more than 230,000 deaths. The epidemic continues to spread, and the epidemic has caused panic and economic decline. For new coronaviruses, there are currently no specific drugs.
At present, most antiviral drug development mainly focuses on blocking viral receptors or inhibiting viral proteases, but enhancing the host&#39;s antiviral is rarely considered. Viruses are parasitic organisms and must rely on host replication. Drugs targeting the host can not only effectively inhibit the rapid replication of viral nucleic acids, but also resist virus resistance mutations. Therefore, anti-new coronavirus drugs targeting the host are the team&#39;s research and development goals . The team first screened the anti-SARS-CoV-2 drug candidate glycyrrhizin through its self-developed artificial intelligence drug efficacy prediction platform. Its in vitro antiviral experiments showed that glycyrrhizin can significantly inhibit SARS-CoV-2 replication in Vero cells. Its antiviral effect in vitro is similar to that of chloroquine.
This study further analyzed the transcriptome of MCF7 cells after glycyrrhizin action. GO functional enrichment analysis found that functional genes such as &quot;type I interferon signaling pathway&quot;, &quot;negative regulation of viral genome replication&quot;, &quot;defense response to virus&quot; and &quot;response to virus&quot; were up-regulated after glycyrrhizin action. &quot;Related functional genes are down-regulated. Further protein-protein interaction network analysis of the up-regulated genes revealed that the most important module contained 9 interferon-related genes. This result showed that glycyrrhizin may play an anti-SARS-CoV-2 effect by simulating type I interferon.
In order to promote the conversion of glycyrrhizin to the clinic, the team further evaluated the safety of intravenous and intraperitoneal injection of glycyrrhizin at the mouse level. The experiment showed that glycyrrhizin was injected intravenously once at 150mg / kg and intraperitoneally at 300mg / kg for 7 consecutive days without obvious toxic and side effects. The body weight and drinking water of the mice were normal. Its liver function, kidney function and heart function are normal, which lays the foundation for the evaluation of the drug-giving of glycyrrhizin.
Traditional Chinese medicine has played an indelible role in this antiviral battle. Glycyrrhizin is one of the main flavonoid compounds in licorice and one of the main components of compound licorice tablets. It has antioxidant, antidepressant, neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties. Inflammation and other physiological activities. It has been reported that patients with severe new coronavirus pneumonia often encounter cytokine storm syndrome (CSS), and glycyrrhizin has multiple antiviral and anti-inflammatory activities. It has multiple advantages in the treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia and is expected to be developed into anti-SARS CoV-2&#39;s new drug, which has also made a reserve of candidate drugs for the future prevention and control of infectious diseases of coronavirus.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern