URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/o/2020-04-30/doc-iirczymi9290424.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000056

Date : 2020-04-30 19:32:00
Title : Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang&#39;s Regular Press Conference on April 30, 2020
Ariticle : 
Original title: Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang ’s Regular Press Conference on April 30, 2020
CCTV reporter at the Central Radio and Television Station: We noticed that at the second meeting of the China-Korea Joint Defense Cooperation Mechanism, the two sides announced the establishment of a &quot;fast track&quot; for important and urgently needed personnel exchanges between the two countries. Can you tell us about the specific situation?
Geng Shuang: Since the outbreak of the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic, China and South Korea have always been in the same boat and are watching each other for help. According to the important consensus reached by the heads of state of the two countries, China and South Korea took the lead in setting up a joint defense and joint control cooperation mechanism led by the diplomatic department and involving multiple departments to strengthen anti-epidemic cooperation and achieve remarkable results. Since the establishment of the mechanism, China and South Korea have continued to conduct heart-warming cooperation in the supply and assistance of epidemic prevention materials, and have maintained a record of &quot;zero output&quot; of mutual cases. This supports the overall situation of the two countries in the fight against epidemics and sets an example for international cooperation in the fight against epidemics.
Yesterday, China and South Korea held the second video conference of the joint defense and joint control cooperation mechanism. The most important achievement was the announcement of the establishment of an important &quot;fast track&quot; for people-to-people exchanges in important business, logistics, production and technical services between China and Korea. Here I would like to introduce the relevant situation.
China and South Korea are important neighbors and important economic and trade cooperation partners. The &quot;fast track&quot; aims to facilitate the exchange of important personnel for the resumption of production and production in China and South Korea under the premise of ensuring the prevention and control of the epidemic, maintain the development of economic and trade cooperation between the two countries, and maintain the stability of the two countries&#39; industrial and supply chains. Both parties believe that the establishment of a &quot;fast track&quot; will help China and South Korea to better coordinate the promotion of epidemic prevention and control and economic and social development, as well as the stable operation of regional and global industrial chains and supply chains.
The general principle of the &quot;fast track&quot; arrangement between China and South Korea is reciprocity. Of course, since the requirements of the two national defense epidemics are not exactly the same, the specific measures are not a complete mechanical response. Specifically, the first batch of Chinese provinces and cities will apply the &quot;fast track&quot; approach. At that time, Korean companies in need will need to apply and obtain approval. After that, the relevant Korean personnel can apply for a visa to come to China according to the regulations. After passing the health monitoring and quarantine testing, the isolation time after entry can be shortened. Thereafter, the whole process will be effectively managed according to the closed-loop principle.
Chinese personnel wishing to apply the &quot;fast track&quot; must apply to the Korean embassy or consulate in China for a visa while applying for exemption from quarantine. If they meet the approval requirements of the Korean side and pass the quarantine tests before and after exit, they can be exempted from quarantine and accept the dynamic anti-epidemic management of the Korean side. .
Against the background of normalization of epidemic prevention and control, the establishment of a &quot;fast track&quot; between China and South Korea is a pioneering initiative. The two sides will strengthen communication and coordination, and constantly adjust and improve relevant programs in light of the epidemic situation and prevention and control policies of the two countries.
In the current epidemic situation, all countries in the world should work together and work together. China is willing to work with the international community, including the ROK, to further strengthen cooperation in combating epidemic diseases, make positive contributions to early victory over the epidemic, maintain regional and global public health security, stabilize the world economy, and jointly build a harmonious and beautiful human homeland.
A Bloomberg reporter asked: Does China have similar arrangements with other countries? Which country is it?
Geng Shuang: Just now I introduced the latest progress and relevant situation of the &quot;fast track&quot; between China and South Korea. We are also willing to discuss with other countries to establish a similar &quot;fast track&quot;, the purpose of which is to prevent the rebound of the epidemic and promote the resumption of production and economic development under the normalization of the epidemic, while ensuring the stable operation of the international industrial chain and supply chain.
What I can tell you is that we have been discussing this with some countries.
China News Agency reporter: US Secretary of State Pompeo said on the 28th that China has not yet allowed the international community to enter the Wuhan Virus Research Institute to investigate the possible source of the new coronavirus, and the Greek and American partners continue to ask China to answer questions about the source of the virus. What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: Regarding the rumors spread by some people against the Wuhan Virus Research Institute, the researcher and director of the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory, Mr. Yuan Zhiming, had fully responded in an interview with Reuters.
As Mr. Yuan Zhiming pointed out, the new coronavirus genome has no traces of artificial modification. The claim that the virus was synthesized by the Wuhan Virus Research Institute is unfounded, and it is purely out of nothing. The institute does not have the ability to design and create a new coronavirus, and it has never done so. Mr. Yuan Zhiming also denied rumors that the laboratory accidentally leaked coronavirus collected from bats, and emphasized that the laboratory strictly implements biosecurity procedures.
I would like to point out again that the problem of virus tracing is a complex scientific problem, which should be studied by scientists and professionals. We urge American politicians to stop &quot;dumping the pot&quot; to China and divert international attention, or to use their time and energy to control their own epidemic situation.
Shenzhen Satellite TV reporter: Recently, some people accused China of not taking timely and effective prevention and control measures as they said in the early stage of the outbreak of new coronary pneumonia, which led to the export of domestic new coronary pneumonia cases to foreign countries. What&#39;s China&#39;s response?
Geng Shuang: This kind of argument is neither in line with the facts, but also disrespectful to the Chinese people for their great efforts and sacrifices to prevent and control the epidemic.
In the face of the epidemic, China, as a party to the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organization, has always adopted the most comprehensive, strict and thorough measures in an open, transparent and responsible manner, and has seriously implemented the provisions of the International Health Regulations In accordance with the provisions of the &quot;Law of the People&#39;s Republic of China on Frontier Health and Quarantine&quot; and the &quot;Law of the People&#39;s Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases&quot;, China takes scientifically and timely adjusts the outbound health and quarantine measures to strictly prevent the spread of the epidemic situation. Here I would like to share with you several important time nodes:
From January 3, China will regularly inform the World Health Organization and relevant countries and regions of the epidemic situation. The General Administration of Customs of China issued the document on the same day, requesting all customs to take targeted port health inspection and quarantine measures.
On January 20, the National Health and Health Commission of China issued an announcement to include new coronary pneumonia in the management of quarantine and infectious diseases as prescribed in the “Law of the People ’s Republic of China on Sanitary and Quarantine Law” and the category B infectious diseases as prescribed in the “Law of the People ’s Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases” And take preventive and control measures for Class A infectious diseases. Based on this, the Chinese side requires the entry and exit personnel to cooperate with the customs to do a good job in health and quarantine such as body temperature monitoring and medical inspection. With regard to confirmed or suspected cases, symptomatic persons, and close contacts among the people planning to leave China, the Chinese side will hand over the relevant personnel to the local joint prevention and control mechanism for isolation, retention and other follow-up treatment in accordance with relevant regulations.
On January 23, Wuhan temporarily closed the airport, railway station and other departure routes. Prior to this, the Chinese Customs had taken appropriate measures to persuade passengers with fever and other symptoms to postpone exit or transfer to designated medical institutions for diagnosis and treatment.
Starting from January 23, all suspected cases of exit from China will be tested for new coronary pneumonia virus nucleic acid. The Chinese side informs WHO of the positive cases detected every day, which is convenient for countries to carry out research and judgment of epidemic situation in a timely manner.
On January 25, the General Administration of Customs of China initiated the implementation of the outbound health declaration, requiring all outbound personnel to make a health declaration to the customs health and quarantine department, and truthfully fill in the personal health status and travel history.
On January 30, the Director-General of WHO convened a meeting of the Emergency Committee to declare that the epidemic constituted an international public health emergency. At the time, there were only 82 confirmed cases outside China. There were only 5 and 10 cases in the United States and Europe, respectively, and there were no deaths.
What I introduced just now is only part of the preventive measures China has taken to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Since the outbreak, the Chinese side has always raced against time, fighting against the virus, constantly refine and strengthen the outbreak prevention and control measures, and fight the prevention and control of the outbreak. The Chinese government and people have overcome great difficulties and made huge sacrifices. While doing well in the prevention and control of domestic epidemic situations, they have also fulfilled their due obligations to reduce the international spread of the epidemic situation.
I still remember clearly that the individual countries that are now blaming China for no reason are still expressing appreciation for China ’s fight against the epidemic. Their words were still in their ears, but now they turned their heads and denied them. I do n’t know what China did wrong, or what do they want to hide or avoid?
Reporter from RIA Novosti: On the question of &quot;fast track&quot; between China and South Korea. I did not get it wrong. You just said that for those who come to China from South Korea, China will shorten the isolation time. How many days do they need to be quarantined after shortening?
Geng Shuang: It should be 14 days now, right?
Reporter: Yes.
Geng Shuang: It will definitely be shorter than 14 days. I don&#39;t have a specific number now. However, the purpose of this policy is to facilitate their exchanges. Therefore, it should be a substantial reduction. If it is shortened by only one or two days, it will be meaningless, right? (Reporter nods)
Reuters reporter: US President Trump interviewed Reuters yesterday and said that China is trying to make him lose the election. What&#39;s China&#39;s comment? Second, in response to questions such as tariffs, President Trump stated that China may be responsible for its performance in response to the new coronary pneumonia epidemic. He is considering various options. What&#39;s your comment on this?
Geng Shuang: Regarding your first question, we have said many times that the US election is an internal matter of the US, and China has no interest in intervening. At the same time, we also hope that the domestic politics of the United States will not talk about China.
Regarding your second question, recently we have used the timeline method many times, and spent a relatively long time introducing the relevant situation of China&#39;s fight against the epidemic and international cooperation. One thing is clear: China always adheres to an open, transparent and responsible attitude. We have managed to control the epidemic situation in our country, and have also made important contributions to the international fight against epidemic disease. The international community generally fully affirms and highly appreciates this.
For some time, individual politicians in the United States have disregarded the facts, discredited and attacked China, attempted to shirk their responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the epidemic, divert their attention, and blame them. This approach will not erase the anti-epidemic achievements made by the Chinese people through hard work. It will only expose the sinister intentions of individual individuals in the United States and their own serious problems.
As for the so-called accountability issue of the US, we have said many times before that the virus is the common enemy of mankind, and China is also a victim of the virus, not an accomplice of the virus. Victims are connected to life and should be united and coordinated. Individuals in the US should know that their enemy is a virus, not China.
Faced with a major public health crisis, the international community needs to join hands instead of creating various names to demolish other people ’s stations. The U.S. side must also be clear that everyone should work together in the current epidemic situation. At this time, dismantling someone else&#39;s station will eventually dismantle your own station.
CCTV reporter: Recently, Spain ’s “National Newspaper”, “World News” and other mainstream media have speculated on the quality of Chinese exports of epidemic prevention materials, saying that Shandong Garry Galaxy ’s export of some masks has a high penetration rate and has not reached the medical masks. Level; the new round of pneumonia detection reagents exported by Shenzhen Shenzhen Yirui Company failed to meet the standard in two rounds of testing. What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: Regarding the quality of China&#39;s exports of anti-epidemic materials as reflected by the Spanish media, the relevant Chinese authorities attached great importance and conducted serious investigations. After investigation, the masks exported by Gary Galaxy were daily protective masks, not medical masks. Yirui Company exported the new coronavirus antigen detection kit. Due to the insufficient verification data of this kind of products, the State Food and Drug Administration of China has not approved any case of antigen detection reagents. Foreign certification, has been approved for listing. In this regard, the Chinese enterprise explained the relevant situation to the outside in advance, but the foreign party insisted on the purchase and later raised objections. It is understood that the Chinese enterprise has refunded the advance payment in full.
Here I would like to reiterate that China attaches great importance to the quality of exported anti-epidemic medical materials. Recently, the Ministry of Commerce, the General Administration of Customs, the Food and Drug Administration, and the General Administration of Market Supervision have issued a number of measures to export medical materials in an orderly manner and strengthen quality supervision. Many of the quality problems that occur in the export of anti-epidemic materials are caused by different quality standards at home and abroad, and differences in usage habits. The foreign party has not strictly used the products according to their uses.
China will continue to strictly implement the supervision policy to ensure the export quality of anti-epidemic materials. At the same time, it also hopes that the foreign party will strengthen the quality inspection of the purchaser at the import stage and use it strictly in accordance with the applicable scope of products and operating procedures. If problems arise, both parties should properly resolve them through consultations in accordance with the principle of commercialization.
Dutch Telegraph reporter: This week, the &quot;Netherlands Trade and Investment Office in Taiwan&quot; was renamed the &quot;Netherlands Office in Taiwan.&quot; What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: The Chinese Embassy in the Netherlands has already responded to this matter. You can take a look.
What I want to say here is that there is only one China in the world, and Taiwan is a part of China. China firmly opposes the establishment of diplomatic relations with Taiwan in any form of official relations or the establishment of any official institution. This position is consistent and clear. We urge the Netherlands to strictly abide by the one-China principle, properly handle Taiwan-related issues, correct wrong practices, and take concrete actions to safeguard the overall situation of bilateral relations.
AFP reporter: Recently, the Chinese ambassador to France said in an interview that French journalists in China always write negative reports. Excuse me, should criticizing the media in the country be what the Chinese ambassador should do?
Geng Shuang: You asked whether the Chinese ambassador to foreign countries has the right to criticize the situation in the country. I do not directly respond to this. But I remind you to pay attention to the usual China-related statements of some European ambassadors to China. I don&#39;t know if they are praising or criticizing. Frankly speaking, praise or criticism, as long as the attitude is sincere and is committed to promoting the relationship between China and the country they represent, I think it is acceptable. However, if some remarks are based on prejudice or bad motives, it is unacceptable.
Bloomberg reporter: Trump said in the interview that he is considering punishing the Chinese government in various ways. I want to ask, what do you think of his consideration?
Geng Shuang: I answered the question from a Reuters reporter just now that the new coronavirus pneumonia is a natural disaster. Like the United States, China is a victim of viruses. Victims are connected to life, and they should unite and work together to overcome difficulties. The US should be clear that their enemy is a virus, not China. At this time, their top priority is to focus on domestic epidemic prevention and control and promote international anti-epidemic cooperation instead of attacking and discrediting China and dumping the blame on China.
As for the so-called punishment and accountability. I remember that we have said many times before at a press conference that there is no legal basis for this statement and there is no international precedent in this regard.
I do n’t remember who was punished after major outbreaks such as H1N1 flu, Ebola, and Zika. Who is responsible for this?
As a matter of urgency, the international community should still increase mutual trust, strengthen unity, and fight the epidemic together. As I said just now, demolishing someone else&#39;s station at this time will eventually dismantle his own station.
Beijing Daily reporter: According to reports, regarding Chinese warships using fire control radar to target Philippine ships, Philippine Defense Minister Lorenzana said in an interview with reporters on the 28th that China may just want to test the reaction of the Philippine side and have no intention of harming people on board. The Philippine Foreign Minister said on Twitter that he had submitted a note to China to protest. What is China&#39;s comment?
Geng Shuang: It is understood that the Philippine accusation of &quot;radar aiming&quot; is not consistent with the facts. Chinese warships are cruising normally in the relevant waters of the Nansha Islands of China, and their professional standards of operation are in compliance with international laws and relevant safety rules. China has made representations to the Philippine side in this regard, asking certain people in the Philippine side to respect the truth and refrain from making unfounded remarks.
Reuters reporter: President Trump also said in the interview that the economic impact of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic severely disrupted the Sino-US economic and trade agreement. Regarding the status of the Sino-US economic and trade agreement in the context of the epidemic, we have already asked the Ministry of Commerce, is there any supplement to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
Geng Shuang: Regarding the first phase of China-US economic and trade agreement, I suggest you still ask the Ministry of Commerce.
Beijing Youth Daily reporter: Recently, the international community has paid close attention to the possible impact of the new coronary pneumonia epidemic on global food security. UN Secretary General Guterres said that the epidemic threatens global food security, and it is vital for the international community to ensure that the food supply chain is not disrupted. The World Bank report predicts that the continued spread of the epidemic may lead to a global food security crisis. The World Food Program says that 265 million people will face severe food shortages this year, an increase of 130 million from last year. How does China view the issue of maintaining food security in the context of the epidemic? Will it reach out to countries in need?
Geng Shuang: Food is the basis of human existence. Food security is the prerequisite for a country&#39;s stable development and the basic aspiration of people of all countries. The impact of the New Coronary Pneumonia Epidemic on global food security has become one of the issues that the international community is generally concerned about.
In the face of the epidemic &quot;Black Swan&quot;, the international community should work together to guard against the &quot;gray rhino&quot; problem of food security. We believe that countries in the world should strive to stabilize their own food production and maintain the order of agricultural production while doing well in the prevention and control of their national epidemics and maintaining global public health security; maintaining food supply and price stability, reducing trade restrictions, and ensuring global food supply The smoothness of the chain; support the role of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and other international organizations to strengthen food production information sharing, experience exchange, technical cooperation, and policy coordination; effectively improve financial and technical support to developing countries, especially the least developed countries, to help them improve Guarantee the level of food security and maintain global food security.
As the world ’s largest developing country and a responsible big country, China has been actively participating in the governance of world food security for a long time. We have sent a large number of experts and technical personnel to Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Pacific Island countries to provide the countries with the best capabilities Aid has become the developing country with the most financial assistance, the most experts sent, and the most projects under the UN South-South cooperation framework of the FAO.
After the outbreak of the New Coronary Pneumonia, China actively responded to FAO initiatives and responded to requests from relevant countries, and sent a locust disaster prevention and control working group to Pakistan to assist in the work, share useful experience, and assist locust control materials with positive results. We also plan to provide technical support and material assistance to East African countries also affected by the locust disaster. China has actively made suggestions and suggestions on multilateral occasions such as the United Nations, the G20, and worked with all parties to maintain the stability and security of the international food industry chain, avoid regional food crises, and provide solid support for people of all countries to pursue greater development.
Since ancient times, China has said that &quot;people take food as the sky&quot;. Food security is a ballast stone for stabilizing people&#39;s livelihood and national transport, an important guarantee for world peace and development, and an important part of the international community&#39;s implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. All countries share a common ground in maintaining global food security. China is willing to continue to strengthen cooperation and coordination with all parties. While fighting the epidemic, we will make unremitting efforts to maintain global food security and make new contributions to the construction of a community of shared future for mankind.
*********************************
According to the May 1st Labor Day holiday arrangements for 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ’regular press conference will be adjourned from May 1 to May 5 and resumed on May 6. During the recess, the spokesperson&#39;s office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accepted questions from reporters in various ways and wish you all a happy holiday.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen