URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-05/doc-iirczymi9980626.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500056

Date : 2020-05-05 18:18:00
Title : Straight Fuchs, merciless face
Ariticle : 
Original title: Geng Zhifuqi, ruthless face slapping
In the face of the unanimous conclusion that the emerging new coronavirus in the global scientific community stems from nature, American politicians may not find the &quot;new material&quot; that discredited China, and they hurriedly repeated lies, spreading rumors of &quot;man-made virus&quot; again.
Governor Changan Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noticed that Fuch, a top American infectious disease scientist known as the &quot;Captain of the Anti-epidemic&quot;, recently faced the top of the White House again: there is strong evidence that the virus that caused the new coronary pneumonia outbreak is not Chinese laboratory.
According to the US Newsweek website reported on the 4th, the top US infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fuch refuted the claim that the new coronavirus originated from the Wuhan Research Institute.
In an interview with National Geographic on the 4th local time, Dr. Foch stated that there is strong evidence that the virus that caused the new coronary pneumonia outbreak did not come from a Chinese laboratory. At the same time, he also denied the statement that &quot;someone found the virus in the wild and brought it back to the laboratory and caused it to leak&quot;.
Prior to Fuchs ’s comments, US President Trump stated at the White House epidemic briefing on April 30 that he believed the new crown virus came from the Wuhan Virus Research Institute.
A reporter asked Trump if he believed that the existing intelligence had a strong credibility that the virus came from the Wuhan Virus Research Institute. Trump replied: &quot;Yes, I think so.&quot;
He also claimed to have seen &quot;evidence that the new coronavirus originated in Chinese laboratories,&quot; but he is always unclear as to what the evidence is. He also said that there are various sayings about the origin of the virus, &quot;we will figure out where it came from.&quot;
In addition, US Secretary of State Pompeo also announced in an interview with the ABC on the 3rd that &quot;there is a lot of evidence that the new coronavirus comes from a laboratory in Wuhan.&quot;
Ironically, just before American leaders claimed to &quot;see evidence&quot;, the New York Times also revealed that senior Trump administration officials have been pressing US intelligence agencies to find evidence to support an unconfirmed &quot;Theory&quot;, that is, the new coronavirus comes from &quot;Wuhan Laboratory&quot;.
However, the US National Intelligence Director ’s Office issued a statement saying, “Agree with a broad scientific consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificially made or genetically modified.”
US CNBC also said that Trump suspected that the new crown virus came from a Chinese laboratory, but did not cite evidence.
Reuters analysis said that the statement refuted the conspiracy theory of anti-China people and some Trump supporters that &quot;the virus originated in the Wuhan laboratory&quot;, and also echoed the WHO&#39;s statement on April 21, that all the evidence is now It shows that the new coronavirus originated in animals, not in the laboratory.
On May 2, Michael Ryan, WHO health emergency project leader, said at a press conference: &quot;We are constantly listening to the opinions of countless scientists about where the new coronavirus found in Wuhan comes from. They have studied the gene sequence and studied The virus, we are pretty sure that the virus originated from nature. &quot;
Ryan said that what is important now is to determine the natural host of the new coronavirus. This is mainly to better understand the new coronavirus and how the virus breaks the boundaries of species from animals to people. Only with this understanding can corresponding preventive measures and public health measures be taken to prevent similar epidemics in the future.
In addition, Horton, the editor-in-chief of The Lancet, also said: Some people in the world have accused China unreasonably of being the source of the spread of the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic. Such accusations are useless and not true. What we really need to do is calm down and work with the Chinese government to understand the epidemic and do everything we can to ensure that the epidemic will not return.
As Tan Desai, Director General of the World Health Organization, said, in recent months we have been fighting two outbreaks, one caused by viruses and the second caused by false information. The impact of false information in many cases is as severe as the epidemic caused by the virus.
In an interview with NBC on April 28, Deputy Foreign Minister Le Yucheng stated that there is now a strange phenomenon. Some politicians are economic or intelligence-based, but they talk about the issue of virus tracing. Obviously, the real experts do not agree that the new crown virus originated in the laboratory, but some politicians insisted that the virus came from the laboratory in Wuhan. Is n’t this ridiculous?
The Governor of Chang&#39;an Street (WeChat ID: Capitalnews) noted that on May 1, the White House refused to allow Fudge, the &quot;anti-epidemic captain&quot; and the top American infectious disease scientist, to attend the House investigation hearing.
The White House deputy press secretary and spokesman Deere argued that the Trump administration is continuing its full response to the new crown epidemic, including reopening the United States and accelerating vaccine development. It is counterproductive for these individuals involved in anti-epidemic to appear at the hearing.
On May 4, the Trump administration issued the latest guidance, saying that unless approved by the White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows this month, all members of the outbreak response team are prohibited from attending the Congressional hearing.
The latest data from Hopkins University shows that there are 1.18 million confirmed cases nationwide and 68,934 deaths.
The University of Washington released its latest research report on the 4th, predicting that the cumulative death toll of the new coronavirus in the United States will exceed 130,000 by the beginning of August, almost double the predicted number in mid-April, and double the current death toll.
Editor in charge: Zhang Jianli