URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-04-30/doc-iircuyvi0622697.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000023

Date : 2020-04-30 08:39:00
Title : Genetic research by French scientists shows that the new French crown epidemic did not come from China
Ariticle : 
Original title: Genetic research by French scientists shows: French new crown epidemic does not come from China
Reference News Network reported on April 30 that Hong Kong media said that a new study by scientists from the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France showed that the new French pneumonia epidemic was not caused by cases imported from China, but by a local circulated Caused by a virus strain of unknown origin.
According to the Hong Kong South China Morning Post website reported on April 28, genetic analysis showed that the main types of these French virus strains belonged to a clade that did not come from China or Italy (that is, a virus group with a common ancestor). Italy is the earliest hot spot in Europe where outbreaks occurred.
Researchers headed by Sylvie Van der Weff and Etienne Simon-Lorriere published an unpeer-reviewed paper on the American Biological Thesis Archive Network (bioRxiv) last week. The article said: &quot;The French outbreak was mainly caused by one or more variants in the clade ... We can infer that the virus was quietly circulating in France in February.&quot;
The report pointed out that France discovered the new coronavirus at the end of January, earlier than any other European country. However, the researchers said that these virus strains were not found in patients who were tested after the earliest imported cases, suggesting that &quot;the isolation measures implemented in France for the earliest new coronary pneumonia cases appear to have prevented local transmission.&quot;
The Pasteur Institute collected samples from more than 90 patients from all over France and found that all virus strains were from the same gene lineage. So far, only virus strains that have evolved along this evolutionary path have been found in Europe and the Americas.
The earliest samples of the French clade of the new coronavirus were collected on February 19 from a patient who had travel history in an epidemic-free area and a patient believed to have no contact with travelers returning from the epidemic area. Many patients have recently traveled to other European countries, the United Arab Emirates, Madagascar and Egypt, but there is no direct evidence that they were infected in these areas.
According to the report, the researchers were surprised that some of the virus strains collected later were older than the first sample in the clade, that is, closer to the original virus. According to the authors of the paper, one possible explanation is that, without being noticed by the health authorities, the local transmission had been in France for some time.
The report believes that the French government may have missed the opportunity to discover the spread of the virus. According to the researchers, a large proportion of these patients may have experienced mild symptoms or no symptoms at all.
The report pointed out that France is the latest in more and more countries and regions that cannot establish any direct connection between the local outbreak and China. For example, according to some studies, the main virus strains in Russia and Australia are from Europe and the United States, respectively.
These findings have been criticized by some politicians who have been trying to blame China to divert domestic anger at their inability to handle the crisis.
The results of these studies also highlight the difficulties encountered by the government in tracking the source of the new coronavirus epidemic.
According to reports, due to insufficient detection and sequencing capabilities, less developed countries may never know where their domestic virus strains come from. For example, India has so far published the genetic sequences of less than 40 virus samples to the public, which is insignificant compared to its large population. According to a recent study, most of the virus strains collected in 35 early cases came from clades dating back to Italy and Iran. However, due to the lack of data, the researchers were unable to track further.
Some famous scientists, including Francis Collins, president of the National Institutes of Health, believe that this virus may have been quietly spreading among humans for many years, even decades, without causing a detectable outbreak.
A recent study conducted by a team of geneticists at Oxford University estimated that the initial outbreak of the current outbreak may have occurred last September. They found that the genetic age of the major virus strains circulating in China and Asia is younger than some common virus strains in the United States.
Editor in charge: Zhu Jiabei