URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0859300.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100042

Date : 2020-05-01 15:09:00
Title : Four major problems exposed by local cluster epidemics in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang
Ariticle : 
Original title: Four major problems exposed by local cluster epidemics in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang
A few days ago, the local cluster epidemic situation related to imported new coronary pneumonia cases in Harbin and Mudanjiang cities in Heilongjiang Province has attracted public attention. On April 30, the Comprehensive Group of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemic Situation reported the basic situation, the problems exposed and the requirements for the next step of the two outbreaks.
On May 1, the official website of the National Health and Health Commission Medical and Medical Administration published the &quot;Notice on the Situation of New Coronary Pneumonia Aggregation in Heilongjiang Province&quot; issued by the Comprehensive Group of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council in response to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Outbreak (Referred to as &quot;Notification&quot;).
The Bulletin pointed out: &quot;Since April 2020, the local aggregation epidemic associated with imported new coronary pneumonia cases has occurred in Harbin and Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang Province, especially involving multiple hospitals that have suffered from nosocomial infections that have lasted for a long time and many infections The bad social impact has brought new pressure on consolidating the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements. &quot;
On April 9, Heilongjiang Province reported the first newly confirmed local case from Harbin, Guo Mou, which ended the province ’s long-standing local case of “zero growth”. Subsequently, the 87-year-old confirmed case of Chen Moujun who had a dinner with Guo entered the public view-dozens of close contacts including Chen Moujun&#39;s children, patients, relatives of patients, and medical staff were diagnosed one after another It also affected neighboring provinces such as Liaoning and Inner Mongolia.
On April 19, Heilongjiang Province notified the newly confirmed 66-year-old couple Wang and Gong of Mudanjiang. Similar to the above-mentioned local cluster epidemic in Harbin, the local cluster epidemic in Mudanjiang subsequently involved multiple related cases, including several medical staff from Mudanjiang Kang&#39;an Hospital and Mudanjiang North Hospital.
According to the official website of the Heilongjiang Health and Welfare Committee, as of 24:00 on April 30, a total of 558 locally confirmed cases were reported, 471 cases were cured and discharged, and 74 cases are currently confirmed (63 in Harbin, 10 in Mudanjiang, and 1 in Daqing ), 27 cases of asymptomatic infection (17 cases in Harbin, 8 cases in Mudanjiang, 2 cases in Suihua). A total of 19,630 people in close contact with the province have been tracked, 17,131 medical observations have been discontinued, and 2,499 are still undergoing medical observations.
In this regard, the State Council ’s comprehensive group on the joint prevention and control mechanism of the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic pointed out in the &quot;Notice&quot; that Harbin City and Mudanjiang City have war-weariness and paralysis and other issues:
1. Insufficient understanding of the epidemic prevention and control situation. Harbin City and Mudanjiang City, as port cities, failed to fully understand the severe situation of &quot;foreign defense importation, internal defense rebound&quot;, lacked understanding of the risk of foreign imports, and there was a war exhaustion and paralyzed slack thoughts. Relevant hospitals mistakenly believe that the new coronavirus infection can be completely screened out by the customs and community prevention and control, and the possibility of a clustered epidemic in the hospital is extremely small, and there is a fluke.
2. There are weak links in the pre-hospital prevention and control measures. First, the entry personnel did not implement the 14-day centralized isolation management, and the control measures for the epidemic situation at the source of the &quot;national gate&quot; were not strict enough, resulting in the possibility of missed detection of new coronavirus infection among the entry personnel. The preliminary results of the epidemiological investigation show that the source of the spread of the clustered epidemic in the two cities is the recent immigration personnel. The second is that the community prevention and control measures have not been effectively implemented. For example, the gathering epidemic in Harbin was caused by the dinner of Mr. Chen.
3. The nucleic acid detection work failed to be carried out in time. Only disease control institutions and infectious disease hospitals in Harbin City can carry out new crown virus nucleic acid testing. Other medical institutions failed to implement the requirements to strengthen laboratory construction and carry out nucleic acid testing in a timely manner, and the relevant departments did not timely carry out effective work such as laboratory filing for medical institutions The guidance has led to most medical institutions not having the nucleic acid detection conditions. Medical staff failed to strictly follow the diagnosis and treatment specifications when they diagnosed and treated fever patients, blindly relied on clinical experience and imaging examination, and failed to carry out nucleic acid detection in time, resulting in misdiagnosis and missed diagnosis.
Fourth, poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures. Relevant hospitals have not fully implemented the state&#39;s requirements on hospital prevention and control. The prevention and control measures of key departments such as pre-examination and triage, and hot clinics are all ineffective, failing to effectively carry out appointments and treatments, and rationally diverting patients; the implementation of disinfection and isolation measures is not in place, and the requirements for zoning are not implemented; Visiting system, personnel in different wards flow freely; medical personnel have weak protection awareness, weak sensitivity, and inadequate training.
Prior to this, the Heilongjiang Provincial Commission for Discipline Inspection has held accountable and accountable for 18 party cadres and public officials who were weak in epidemic prevention and control. Xu Yong.
In response to Mudanjiang ’s poor isolation and management of close contacts at home, the multi-person dining resulted in the addition of several asymptomatic infected persons associated with imported cases abroad. Written inspections were written, and the provincial government party group meeting held on April 30 notified the relevant situation.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming