URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/s/2020-05-04/doc-iircuyvi1272325.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400044

Date : 2020-05-04 14:10:00
Title : The 81-year-old man in the UK was abandoned by the hospital and was rescued by his son when he returned home
Ariticle : 
Original title: 81-year-old man in the United Kingdom was abandoned by the hospital and was rescued by his son after returning home
Affected by the epidemic, ventilators in many hospitals in the UK are in shortage. Waterford Hospital on the outskirts of London announced to an old man that he could no longer arrange a ventilator for him. In order to save his father, the old man&#39;s son built a &quot;first aid ventilator&quot; by himself.
On March 25, his 55-year-old son, Raj, discovered that his 81-year-old father suddenly had difficulty walking and had difficulty breathing. Although his father had no fever and cough, Raj still suspected that his father was infected with the new crown virus.
Sure enough, when Raj sent his father to the hospital the next day, emergency personnel told him that his father&#39;s lungs had effusions. Then the doctor said that according to experience, Raj&#39;s father was almost certain to be infected with the new coronavirus, and because of the lack of equipment in the hospital, even if they were hospitalized, they could not provide the elderly with a ventilator.
It can be said that the decision of the hospital was almost a &quot;sentence of death&quot; against Raj&#39;s father.
However, Raj suddenly remembered that he had a &quot;ventilator&quot; at home-a continuous positive pressure ventilator (CPAP) used by his father. In fact, CPAP equipment is mainly used to prevent apnea during sleep and to treat people infected with new coronavirus, but it is not actually safe. But to save his father, Raj had no choice.
Therefore, Raj, who is also a high-risk group, made a very risky and brave decision: take his father home and take care of himself!
The author found a personal resume suspected to be Raj on the Internet. The data shows that Raj&#39;s major is market analysis and business management, and there is basically no medical expertise.
However, this determination to save his father&#39;s son has brought his data analysis expertise to the extreme. With the help of data collection tools, he managed to import his father ’s physiological indicators into the table and make records.
Fortunately, Raj found an enthusiastic doctor in his community. The doctor analyzes his father&#39;s condition based on the data provided by Raj every day, and gives some professional advice, such as recommending auxiliary drugs, and asking Raj&#39;s father to change the sleeping position. In order to ensure the safety of his father, Raj&#39;s family also took turns to visit his father through the Internet.
Eventually, with the help of a ventilator accidentally found at home and the selfless help of an enthusiastic doctor, Raj and his family rescued his father from the ghost door with determination and ingenuity. According to reports, Raj&#39;s father is now better and can walk on his own with the help of auxiliary equipment.
According to local doctors, several patients who came home to treat themselves did not recover, and most of them died of illness. Therefore, Raj&#39;s father is undoubtedly very lucky.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern