URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi1050577.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300017

Date : 2020-05-02 22:20:00
Title : The US Centers for Disease Control recognizes that action should be taken earlier to respond to the outbreak
Ariticle : 
Original title: The US Centers for Disease Control recognizes that action should be taken earlier to respond to the outbreak
[Text / Observer Wang Hui] On May 1, the official deputy director of the US Centers for Disease Control published an article by Anne Schuchat (Anne Schuchat) that the United States missed the opportunity to delay the spread of the new coronavirus. At that time, the United States was very slow in understanding the status of imported cases in Europe, which caused an accelerated outbreak of the epidemic in the United States.
In his article, Shuchat questioned the travel ban previously issued by the US government. Shuchat pointed out that the US government did not issue a travel ban on European countries until March 11, and in February more than 2 million people arrived in the United States from European countries. The input of these people will indeed accelerate the outbreak of the subsequent US epidemic.
Shuchat said that the United States has limited testing capabilities in late February and has not yet announced a travel ban on countries other than China. These reasons have led to a surge in US cases. &quot;We obviously did not realize all the imported cases at that time.&quot;
Today, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in the world has exceeded 3.3 million, and the cumulative number of deaths exceeds 230,000. The cumulative number of diagnoses in a country in the United States accounts for about 1/3 of the global total, and the cumulative deaths account for about 1/4 of the world.
In an article published on the 1st, Shuchat reviewed the US response to the new coronavirus in the past few months, the major decisions made, and the major events that occurred. A series of facts show that the highest health agency in the United States missed the opportunity to delay the spread of the virus.
The Associated Press said that the US Centers for Disease Control is responsible for identifying, tracking and preventing such diseases, but during this &quot;pandemic&quot;, the US Centers for Disease Control has kept a low profile. It is White House officials who control communications and preside over most news releases. meeting.
Jason Schwartz, an assistant professor of health policy at the Yale School of Public Health, said: &quot;The level of public participation in the US Centers for Disease Control has been weakened to this level ... This is the most noticeable federal response. And one of the most puzzling aspects. &quot;
Shuchat also questioned the travel ban imposed by the Trump administration in the article. Shuchat pointed out that in February alone, 2 million passengers arrived in the United States from Italy or other European countries. The US government did not introduce a travel ban against Europe until March 11.
&quot;I think our travel warning time should be earlier,&quot; Shuchat said. &quot;In the event of an outbreak in Europe, a wide range of travelers from Europe will indeed accelerate the spread of the US epidemic.&quot;
She also mentioned that from February to the beginning of March, more than 100 people on nine Nile River cruises tested positive in the United States. This number almost doubled the number of known cases in the United States at that time. Fan.
Shuchat said: &quot;In retrospect, taking action earlier may delay further outbreaks (of the US epidemic) or slow the outbreak.
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming