URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1075159.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300023

Date : 2020-05-03 07:55:00
Title : A dozen women ca n’t destroy Trump, a woman can destroy Biden
Ariticle : 
Original title: A dozen women can&#39;t destroy Trump, a woman can destroy Biden
Source: China Philanthropist Magazine
People are used to demanding saints by the standards of saints, and madmen by the standards of madmen.
Biden, the former vice president who is running for president, is in trouble this time. A woman named Tara Reade reported to the Washington, D.C. Police Department on April 9 that she was the victim of a sexual harassment incident. The report does not clearly state the name of the perpetrator, but Reid later admitted to the media that he is now Biden, who is now at the center of the American political fight.
According to Reid, this incident occurred in 1993. At that time, Biden served as the federal senator of Dallaville State, and Reid worked in his office from December 1992 to August 1993 and was responsible for managing the interns in the office.
She said that one day there was no one in the office. Biden pushed her to the wall and inserted her finger into her lower body. She said she had already reported the case to Congress. Two or three of Reid ’s friends and family members said they remembered that she mentioned it in those years.
This is not the first time Biden has been complained about by women. The vice-president, a kind-eyed grandpa, was trapped in a whirlpool last year. The first is that in March, former Nevada Rep. Lucy Flores publicly accused Biden of going to Nevada to help her canvass when she ran for the state ’s deputy governor in 2014. Before the event began, Biden put his hands from behind On her shoulder, and then gave her a long kiss on the back of the head, which made her feel weird.
After this, seven women who used to work with Biden or had a working relationship with him followed Biden, and Reid was one of them. However, most of the complaints were directed against Biden ’s deviation from the social etiquette of hugging or kissing women. Too intimate may be too intimate, making women “uncomfortable”. Biden also responded quickly, saying that he was not malicious and did not realize that there was anything wrong with his behavior. He would pay attention to respecting the personal space of others in the future.
This time, the 77-year-old man faced a formal complaint of sexual harassment for the first time, and he didn&#39;t say a word for many days. Although the New York Times ’previous investigation report on the matter did not find any person who worked in Biden ’s office that year to prove the matter, and no other staff had similar experience, from the important members of the Democratic Party to the people who eat melons asked Biden The voice of explanation came out wave after wave. On May 1, Biden finally mentioned the matter for the first time in an interview on the MSNBC TV station and denied it completely.
&quot;No, it&#39;s not true. I have to be clear. This thing has never happened before.&quot; Biden said, he also said with confidence, if the National Archives had a record of Complaints from Reed that year, it should Take it out to dry.
Does this sound familiar? In 2016, Trump was also complained of sexual harassment by women when he was running for president. At that time, the complainants included more than a dozen people who did not know each other, from the drafts in the reality TV show he hosted that year to those who had business with him. Real estate broker.
A woman named Jessica Leeds said that she used to sit in the seat next to Trump in the business class of the airplane in the 1980s, and the two did n’t know each other, so Trump pulled her skirt up and down Finally, she had to hide in the back cabin of the plane. There is also a reporter named Natasha Stoynoff, who worked for People magazine in 2005 and interviewed him at Trump Manor in Florida, but he was kissed by him and stuck his tongue to her. In the throat.
When these complaints set off a huge wave, the famous quote about women that was inadvertently stolen by Trump when he went to record the &quot;Close to Hollywood&quot; TV program in 2005 has been dug out by the media and released to the world to listen to. Puhe host Billy Bush chatted about women in private, and the later US president said: &quot;When you are a star, they will accommodate you, you can do whatever you want, grab their private parts, do whatever you want.&quot;
Even so, Trump&#39;s allegations against many women during the election campaign were still unambiguous, and he was asked about it during a campaign debate, saying the same thing as Biden now: &quot;I don&#39;t know these things at all I have n’t seen those women. ”In December 2017, People magazine published a photo of Trump and the reporter Stonov, who he had never seen.
In fact, it ’s not just a presidential candidate. Probably all men will be conditioned when they are in this situation. The difference between their level and position is that ordinary players squat when the opponent shows the iron certificate And when the evidence is conclusive, the master can not blush and not beat, continue to insist on his innocence, and also blame the woman for blaming him wrongly.
Of course, these complaints against Trump and Biden are true and false, and cannot be easily determined by outsiders. But what I can conclude is that Biden is now in trouble, much larger than when Trump elected president.
With a few more complaints of the same kind, people can also let Trump pass, and for Biden, this single will be enough to make him a target. If he ca n’t turn the tide, it ’s not impossible for him to be overwhelmed by the spit.
Is this a double standard? Of course it is, but Biden and his Democratic supporters can&#39;t blame others.
If you live in New York, you must have seen the passengers lying on the subway that dominate the entire bench, smoking and swearing, seeing all manners and rules as dung passengers, no matter how crowded the car, the surrounding passengers will automatically evacuate Instead of squeezing his breath, he would n’t go forward to talk to him.
But if a neatly-dressed, clear-minded person puts his vegetable basket on the seat next to him in a crowded car, people will not only roll his eyes at him, but will also step forward and ask him to move things without hesitation. Open, give way to others.
In other words, the bad guy in the class who has been making mistakes all day pulls your braid, you probably can only swallow it, if the gentle gentleman suddenly comes to pull your braid, then you will probably cry and tell the teacher .
This is the essence of the double standard: people are used to demanding saints by the standard of saints, and demanding madmen by the standards of madmen. What label do you put on yourself, people will use this as a basis to set expectations for your words and deeds.
The reason why Trump has been able to do whatever he wants since he took office is invincible. Whether it is to call the Mexican a &quot;rapist&quot; or to propose the strange trick of injecting disinfectant into the body to kill the new coronavirus, his words and deeds are entirely reasonable He set the crazy man he set himself from the beginning. The audience is not only surprised, but accustomed to it.
In contrast to the Republican conservatives who never concealed themselves as representing the interests of the rich and centered on personal interests, and never put the politically correct red tape in their eyes, Biden and the Democratic liberals to which he belongs belong to a completely different situation. They have always held high the banner of morality, justice and poverty alleviation, and vowed to stand with the working masses of women, ethnic minorities, and low-income earners.
The difference between the two is evident from the &quot;side dishes&quot; used by Biden and Trump to deny complaints of sexual harassment: Biden emphasized that Reid has the right to file a complaint and speak his mind. &quot;I believe that women should take their complaints seriously, but in the end, the most critical thing in each complaint is the facts&quot;; and Trump did not have such a high-profile speech at that time, and directly said &quot;She is not my dish.&quot;
Of course, the different personalities of the two parties are not simply a matter of high character, but more of a political game strategy. Rich people have more money but fewer people, and poor people have less money but more people. In democratic elections, money and votes are the two key points. Both parties have their own heads, so that they can evenly compete.
However, objectively, people who talk about benevolence and morals all day long will be accused if they act inconsistently. Not professional enough.
For example, the last President Barack Obama praised the then California Attorney General Kamala Harris as &quot;the best-looking state attorney general&quot; at a fundraising conference in 2013, which caused an uproar. Refers to sexism, and later personally phoned to Alice to apologize. The current Speaker of the House of Representatives, Plosi, was interviewed during the epidemic during the evening&#39;s hilarious show and showed a large cup of high-end ice cream in his refrigerator. He was criticized as &quot;ignoring the sufferings of the people&quot; on the Internet.
In fact, when the United States came to this day, many people already understood that although hypocrites are shameful, but at least you still have the opportunity to use them to humiliate them with fakes and righteousness, but that is true for those who have left aside righteousness completely Helpless. But now I realize it is still a little late.
(Rong Xiaoqing, New York media reporter, Alicia Patterson Fellow, Pulitzer Center News Grant recipient)
Responsible Editor: Van Stern