URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-04-29/doc-iirczymi9062445.shtml
ID : SINA2020042900055

Date : 2020-04-29 16:46:00
Title : Trump said that there is only one reason for the diagnosis of millions in the United States: the test is done well
Ariticle : 
Original title: Trump said that there is only one reason for the diagnosis of millions in the United States: the test is done well
China News Service, April 29th, according to a comprehensive report, according to the statistics of Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of the 28th local time, the number of cases of new coronavirus infection in the United States has exceeded 1 million. In this regard, US President Trump wrote on social media that all this is attributed to the fact that the US virus detection has done better than other countries.
On the 29th local time, Trump wrote on social media, &quot;The only reason why the United States has reported 1 million cases of new coronavirus infection is that our virus testing has done much better than any other country in the world. It lags far behind us in detection, so there are far fewer cases! &quot;
According to reports, in order to gradually restart the economy, Trump issued a blueprint for the White House to expand virus detection on the 27th. US public health officials said that under the new guidelines, each state will be provided with enough testing reagents to enable at least 2% of the population in each state to be screened for new coronavirus each month.
However, the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) pointed out that despite Trump ’s optimistic assessment, the blueprint did not provide specific details on how the United States will achieve the goal of expanded testing, but instead blamed the expanded testing on various states, and At the same time, the federal government is described as &quot;the last supplier&quot;.
Earlier, US chief infectious disease expert Fawsi had warned that the United States still lacked sufficient capacity to detect the new coronavirus. In this regard, Trump has publicly stated recently, &quot;I disagree with his views&quot;, &quot;I think we have done a good job in testing.&quot;
On the 28th, the New York Times reported that when the United States faced the worst public health disaster in several generations and needed leaders to mobilize American scientific institutions to go all out, the United States was led by such a president: he When formulating policies, his government despised the scientist ’s conclusions; he was suspicious of professional knowledge and often put his political intuition above the facts.
&quot;New York Times&quot; pointed out that during the response to the new crown epidemic, Trump has repeatedly expressed contradictions with public health experts. Disregard for scientific advice has become one of the main features of the Trump administration, and this has become a factor that affects the status of the United States on the world stage.
Editor in charge: Zhang Shen