URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1117773.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300059

Date : 2020-05-03 12:54:00
Title : British Prime Minister disclosed: &quot;The government has arranged my future&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original title: British Prime Minister disclosed, &quot;The government has arranged my future&quot;
Surging News Reporter Nan Boyi
The British Prime Minister Boris Johnson did once hover on the verge of death, he said so.
A week after resuming work, Boris first publicly talked about his previous infection with the new coronavirus and his subsequent treatment experience. According to a report by Sky News UK on May 3, in an exclusive interview with The Sun, Boris revealed that his situation has deteriorated sharply after being infected with the virus, so that the government has formulated countermeasures and arrangements for its possible death.
Boris said that after being diagnosed with the new coronavirus at the end of March, he once strongly denied the severity of his condition because he &quot;really didn&#39;t want to go to the hospital&quot;, but then his own indicators once developed in the wrong direction. &quot;In retrospect, my doctors were right to force me to leave my job.&quot;
Talking about the treatment he received, Boris revealed that he was arranged for a lot of oxygen after being transferred to the intensive care unit on April 7 &quot;.
Prior to the interview, Boris ’fiancee Carrie Symonds also disclosed that she was going to name the two newborn babies“ Nicholas ”. In order to thank the two doctors who saved Boris’ life, And Nicholas Hart.
According to a report by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) on April 27, Johnson made a speech at 10 Downing Street for the first time after recovery. He thanked the people who made sacrifices for the country and thanked them for their &quot;courage and courage&quot; in the face of the epidemic. At the same time, Johnson also warned that the UK is still in the &quot;maximum risk&quot; of the development of the epidemic. He said that the government would not unduly relax the blockade restrictions and refused to risk the second peak of infection, &quot;letting the public sacrifice.
According to the British Ministry of Health and Social Security, as of 9 a.m. local time on May 2, local New Coronary Pneumonia cases were newly diagnosed with 4,806 new cases, a total of 182,260 cases. As of 5 pm local time on May 1st, there were 28,131 deaths and 621 new cases in a single day. The data includes the number of deaths from infections outside the hospital.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yiling