URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iirczymi9689173.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300068

Date : 2020-05-03 18:00:00
Title : In Russia, the number of new diagnoses exceeded 10,000 in a single day! Putin accepts the highest level of protection
Ariticle : 
Original title: Newly diagnosed in Russia in a single day! Putin accepts the highest level of protection
latest news
According to the information released by the CCTV news client on the official website of the Russian new crown virus epidemic prevention website, as of 10:25 on May 3 local time, in the past 24 hours, Russia has added 10633 new cases of new pneumonia and a total of 134687 cases. There were 58 new deaths, a total of 1280 deaths and 16,639 cured.
In the capital city of Moscow, 5948 new cases were diagnosed, with a total of 68606 cases, making it the most severely affected area in the country.
At present, more than 4.1 million new coronavirus tests have been conducted in Russia, and a total of about 215,000 people are undergoing medical observation.
On the same day, the Russian Prime Minister ’s press secretary Boris Belyakov said that Prime Minister Mishustin has been under medical observation since the diagnosis of new coronary pneumonia on April 30. Currently he feels good about himself and is still processing government affairs and working with other governments. Keep in touch.
Foreign media said that Russian President Putin is receiving the highest level of protection.
According to a report by the Russian satellite news agency Moscow on May 2, the Russian Epidemic Prevention Headquarters stated that 57 new deaths have occurred in the past 24 hours, with a total of 1,222 deaths.
It is reported that half of the new 9623 cases of infection are asymptomatic.
According to a report by the TASS Moscow on May 1, the Russian President ’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov said in an interview with the TV show &quot;Moscow Kremlin Putin&quot; that under the new coronavirus epidemic, Health protection is at the highest level.
According to the report, Peskov said in response to whether Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin will be diagnosed with infection and strengthen preventive measures: &quot;Of course, in these days, the health protection of the head of state is the highest level. &quot;
On Thursday evening local time, Mishustin reported to Putin that his new coronavirus test was positive. The head of state appointed Andrei Belovsov as acting prime minister during Mishustin&#39;s illness. Putin wishes Mishustin to recover as soon as possible, and hopes that he will actively participate in the decision-making to support the people and the economy during his illness.
In addition, according to a report by TASS Moscow on May 1, the Ministry of Construction ’s Information Department said on Friday local time that Minister Vladimir Yakushev and Deputy Minister Dmitry Volkov were infected with the new coronavirus.
According to reports, the Information Department quoted Yakusev as saying: &quot;I will be treated in a hospital in Moscow. I will keep in touch with the outside world.&quot;
Another deputy minister Nikita Stashin was appointed acting minister. The Information Department also stated that the diagnosis of Yakusev and Volkov was confirmed by the results of electronic computed tomography (CT).
According to the report, the Ministry of Construction told TASS that more than 80% of the staff of the Ministry will switch to remote office from the end of March.
According to a report on the website of Russia ’s “News” on May 2, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Russia stated that the Minister of the Ministry, Valery Falikov, had conducted self-isolation.
According to reports, the Information Department stated that the Minister is currently working remotely, but did not specify the reasons for this decision and other details of the Minister ’s recent work arrangements.
Source: Reference News Network, CCTV News Client
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming