URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9385530.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100052

Date : 2020-05-01 14:42:00
Title : Trump said he will be solely responsible for the development of the new crown vaccine US netizens: My God
Ariticle : 
Original title: Trump said he will be solely responsible for the research and development of the new crown vaccine, American netizens: God
US President Trump said on April 30 that the United States plans to accelerate the development of a new coronavirus vaccine, and he will be solely responsible for this project.
According to Reuters, Trump told reporters in the White House office on the 30th that he is fully responsible for the project to develop a new coronary pneumonia vaccine as soon as possible.
&quot;Do our best and spare no effort.&quot; Trump said, &quot;I hope we can develop a vaccine, we will develop at a rate you have never seen.&quot;
When asked who was responsible, Trump replied: &quot;Do you know who is responsible for it? It&#39;s me.&quot;
According to reports, this move is part of the so-called &quot;Operation Warp Speed&quot; (Operation Warp Speed) plan, which will be carried out by government agencies and the military in collaboration with private pharmaceutical companies to try to shorten the vaccine development time by up to eight months.
Although Trump seems confident that he is fully responsible for vaccine research and development, but in view of Trump&#39;s previous series of amazing words and deeds around the new coronary pneumonia, some American netizens expressed doubt and concern.
&quot;Oh my god, Trump said he was in charge of vaccine development ... We have to finish it!&quot; An American netizen tweeted. Another U.S. netizen posted a photo on Twitter. In the photo, the American comedian held a blank piece of paper and said, &quot;He will kill us all.&quot;
An American netizen exclaimed on Twitter: &quot;The United States is in trouble! He thought he was a scientist! He might not be able to assign tests to Americans, but he was responsible for vaccine development!&quot;
Some netizens bluntly lacked confidence in the vaccine Trump was responsible for, and claimed that even if it was developed, he would not be injected with this vaccine, nor would he let his children get it. An American netizen said, &quot;I guess we have to wait for Europe to develop a truly useful vaccine.&quot;
Another netizen said: &quot;Trump is the person I least want to come in charge of the vaccine, especially considering his comments about injections (disinfectants) last week.&quot;
Trump proposed to scientists at a briefing on April 23 that they should try to inject disinfectants into patients with new crowns to confirm whether that helps clear the virus. Trump&#39;s proposal was immediately refuted by the medical community.
Not long ago, Rick Bright, the director of the US Department of Health and Human Services who oversees vaccine development, was suddenly removed from office. Brett issued a statement on April 22 stating that he believed he had been removed from office because he insisted that the White House should spend billions of dollars in anti-epidemic funds on research that is safe and scientifically evaluated, rather than on those lack Scientifically based drugs, vaccines or other technologies.
Reuters reported that government agencies and the military will cooperate with the private sector, with the goal of preparing 100 million doses of new coronavirus vaccine by the end of 2020. Executives and other experts have previously stated that clinical trials to ensure vaccine safety and effectiveness may take longer, at least 12 to 18 months.
Responsible Editor: Van Stern