URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9867410.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500033

Date : 2020-05-04 23:17:00
Title : Goat papaya all tested positive, the president vomited ...
Ariticle : 
Original title: Goat papaya all tested positive, the president vomited ...
&quot;(Don&#39;t) should we segregate goats and fruits now?&quot;
Reuters news on the 3rd, Tanzanian President Magu R &amp; F questioned the quality of the new coronavirus detection reagents from abroad. His reason was that he had people randomly take several non-human samples (including from a papaya, a goat and a Sheep were up-sampled), and they were marked with their names and ages for testing. As a result, both goat and papaya samples were tested positive. Kenya ’s “Nairobi News” reported on the same day that Margulfou described these testing reagents as “technical errors” and has ordered an investigation into the country ’s new coronavirus testing procedures.
Reuters said Magufuri made the above statement at an event held in Chato, northwestern Tanzania. He said the new coronavirus detection reagents are from abroad, but did not disclose more details.
According to reports, Ma Gufuli said that in order to check the quality of these new crown detection reagents, he instructed the Tanzanian security forces to randomly take several non-human samples, including sampling from a papaya, a goat and a sheep, and label them The person&#39;s name and age are submitted for examination. These samples were then submitted to the Tanzanian laboratory for the detection of the new coronavirus, and laboratory technicians conducted the test without any knowledge of the source.
According to the report, Margufli said that samples collected from papayas and goats tested positive for new coronavirus, which means that it is likely that some people will be tested positive without being infected with new coronavirus.
&quot;Nairobi News&quot; stated that when talking about the matter, Magufuri said: &quot;Our sample taken from a goat turned out to be positive. This tells you that something is wrong. (Could we) treat goats now? Is it isolated from the fruit? ”Magufuri also said,“ Something is happening, as I said before, we cannot feel that all aid is good for this country. ”
As of 3rd local time, Tanzania has reported 480 confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia and 17 deaths. However, Reuters reported in the report that the anti-epidemic measures of the Magufuri government have received a lot of criticisms recently, for example, they asked the people to drive away the new crown pneumonia through prayer.
&quot;Nairobi News&quot; also criticized that although Magufuri urged the public to act cautiously, it downplayed the severity of the epidemic, declaring that it could be controlled without affecting the national economy. &quot;Let&#39;s keep working. The factory must continue to produce products. I said it before, and I will repeat this: I will not put Dar es Salaam (the original capital of Tanzania) under the blockade.&quot;
In addition, Magufuri also stated that he was sending an aircraft to collect a herbal remedy being promoted by the President of Madagascar. However, this herb has not yet been approved by any international scientific tests. &quot;I am communicating with Madagascar,&quot; he said in a speech, adding: &quot;They have a medicine. We will send a plane there and the medicine will be shipped back to Tanzania so that Tanzanians can benefit from it.&quot;
　　
　　
Editor in charge: Zhu Jiabei