URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iircuyvi1213798.shtml
ID : SINA2020050400018

Date : 2020-05-04 07:57:00
Title : The Americans really can&#39;t stand it any longer and take the initiative to defend China!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Americans can&#39;t stand it anymore, they have defended China on their own initiative!
Source: Niu Qin
The Americans really can&#39;t stand it any longer, and have taken the initiative to defend China!
The new fuse was searched by Pompeo. Yes, that is Secretary of State Pompeo.
The reason for the hot search is that in the early morning of May 4, Beijing time, Pompeo said this: I have a lot of evidence that the new coronavirus originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China!
Please note that Pompeo said: &quot;I have a lot of evidence.&quot;
This is a very serious accusation! In particular, this is the highest diplomat in the United States.
But where is the evidence?
Pompeo said nothing. A few days ago, the U.S. intelligence service made a clear statement. The U.S. intelligence community agrees with a broad scientific consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified ...
Interestingly, a reporter immediately posted the conversation at the time, and Pompeo was interviewed by ABC News&#39; &quot;This Week&quot; column.
The host asked: Then do you think the new crown virus is artificial?
Pompeo: The best experts think so ...
Moderator: But the US intelligence department said that the scientific consensus is that this cannot be artificial.
,
Pompeo: That&#39;s right, I agree with this ...
Moderator: Then please clarify, you also believe that this is not artificial?
Pompeo: Well, what matters is what the Chinese regime could have prevented ...
Do you see the logic?
Pompeo also seems to be quite contradictory: if the intelligence of the US intelligence service is suspected, then the intelligence service will definitely not work, then the US government will be infighted; if it is in favor of the intelligence service, then the new coronavirus is certainly not artificial and slapped on its own face ... …
And be aware that Pompeo also served as CIA director.
How to do?
Blushing and not beating: let&#39;s change the subject.
Really don&#39;t say, after watching the video, Pompeo still talked endlessly, even if it was embarrassing. considering
A lot of people are really going to be led by Pompeo. An American named Walter Shaub deliberately made an example:
Moderator: How much is 2 + 2?
Pompeo: I know, equal to 9!
Moderator: Math teacher said it is equal to 4.
Pompeo: Absolutely, I agree with this.
Moderator: So how much do you mean?
Pompeo: In fact, the most important thing is that cyanide is a conspiracy of the Communist Party.
Moderator: What do you say?
Pompeo: Martha, have you seen the group of people drinking a glass of water?
Please forgive me, I changed &quot;question and answer&quot; to &quot;host and pompeo&quot;, which is more intuitive.
Does any American believe in Pompeo? It ca n’t be said that there is no, but most of them are obviously in a bad mood. Anyway, under this news, 99% of people are defending China, and even have to apologize for having such a guy in their hometown.
Randomly picked a few messages, it is very interesting, you can look at the marked time, it should be freshly baked:
Message one: Sorry, Trump is using a shared brain cell in the White House. He is trying to open a jar of peanut butter (meaning, guess it yourself)
Message 2: I want to apologize as a Kansasian (Pompeo is from Kansas), but we really never want such a fool.
Message 3: The worst US Secretary of State ...
Message 4: The shame of the 1986 grade at West Point Military Academy (Pompeo attended West Point Military Academy)
Message 5: He has no idea what he is talking about ...
The opportunity to accuse China was eventually turned into a large rollover scene, and he also sent Pompeo to the hot search, and accepted the saliva of American netizens.
What do you think?
Old rules, three o&#39;clock.
First, Americans really can&#39;t stand it anymore. The eyes of the masses are sharp, and in this world, things are good and bad, and some evidence. In this way, there is no evidence, but you can let yourself go, and Americans are probably happy. This time the US government really has a set of things to do, which is really a lot of joy.
Second, American intelligence personnel were dumbfounded. Otherwise, it will not issue a statement that the new coronavirus is not artificial. However, this lack of coordination caused Trump and Pompeo not to come to Taiwan. It is estimated that some intelligence personnel will be suspended.
Third, be wary of Americans&#39; bottomless attacks. Diplomacy has some rules, but there is no evidence, but it can say &quot;have a lot of evidence&quot;, which really has no bottom line. Alas, the horizontal is afraid of flustered, the stunned is afraid of death, and the most afraid of death ...
This will not be the last wave of attacks in the United States. A lie is repeated 1,000 times, and it often becomes truth. It seems that in order to dump the pot, the United States is a little bit out of it. China should be careful!
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu