URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-04/doc-iirczymi9833032.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500007

Date : 2020-05-04 18:01:00
Title : The blind resumption of work in the US will lead to a &quot;disaster&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original title: Blind resumption of work in the US will lead to &quot;disaster&quot;
Article | Matthew C. Klein, contributor to Barron Weekly
The U.S. economy ’s contraction over the past six weeks may be worse than during the Great Depression. The good news is that if the correct measures are taken, the United States can control the damage caused by the recession of the new coronavirus and recover most of its losses. But if the response is unlawful, it will eventually lead to more deaths and a greater blow to the economy.
&quot;Restart&quot;-from Chinese leaders to German Chancellor Merkel to Trump, all policymakers in all countries are eager to do so-sounds tempting, but this is not the answer. In most cases, government restrictions have not prevented business activities that would have occurred—after all, the necessary business activities are still going on, and many other workers are able to work from home. On the contrary, people reacted rationally to the threat of this deadly infectious disease, and even began to control consumption before the blockades were implemented in various cities and states in the United States. Unless people feel safe, removing restrictions will not bring much help to affected industries such as restaurants and airlines. Demand in these industries has fallen off the cliff and may be far below normal levels before new coronary pneumonia treatment drugs or vaccines are available.
Well, the answer is that the government should concentrate on providing financial support to companies and workers to help them overcome the difficulties until the health crisis passes. The “Relief Act” with a scale of US $ 2.3 trillion has taken the first step, but it is too small and poorly targeted. A good rule of thumb is that the size of funds often seems to be sufficient, but in fact it is not enough. For example, the $ 349 billion “Pay Protection Program” has run out of funds, and processing a large number of backlog applications has prevented companies from obtaining what they need.
Trying to reopen without customers will only lead to more bankruptcies and layoffs, which will cause a greater blow to the economy. For example, the Chinese government claims to have curbed new infections and removed many restrictions that were implemented earlier this year. But after deducting inflation, China&#39;s retail spending in March was still 18% lower than the same period last year, and there was little growth compared to February.
Ending control measures prematurely may also put a heavy strain on the medical system without bringing any benefits to workers and businesses. With the increasing number of deaths-if we don&#39;t stop the spread of the virus, this will happen-even the most business-minded government can hardly convince people to go out and be safe. Japan appeared to have avoided trouble without severe restrictions, but with the rapid increase in the number of infected people, it is now forced to enter a national emergency. The Swedish government has deliberately chosen to avoid giving priority to public health, but the country is still suffering from an economic recession and its mortality rate is soaring.
None of this is to say that the current situation is tolerable. Responsible precautions are taking away large amounts of income and employment in the US economy. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) believes that the current &quot;containment measures&quot; of the virus will directly reduce US output by a little more than 25% during its duration, and that all costs will be amplified by various factors, such as companies cutting advertising expenditures and consumers. Tighten the budget and so on. One consequence is that as of April 11, about 15 million Americans are receiving unemployment benefits-more than double the highest record set in the summer of 2009.
So, what can we do?
In theory, regularly testing every man, woman, and child—and quickly isolating anyone who tests positive—can allow most people to live more or less as they did before the vaccine was developed. Economist Paul Romer has been calling on the United States to test 20 to 30 million people every day, which will be 250 times the current daily test volume. Due to the lack of supply and labor, any measures to expand the detection capacity will face difficulties, not to mention 250 times. But whatever the normalization progress, this is necessary.
Although some places have taken active actions to contain the virus as early as possible (such as the San Francisco Bay Area) and may lift restrictions relatively quickly based on local conditions, doing so will put them at risk of recurring outbreaks because of other sources Local travelers may spread the virus. Therefore, any &quot;restart&quot; will have to be postponed until the place where the last action is taken (such as Florida) to finally control the epidemic-unless Americans are willing to strictly draw boundaries with their compatriots.
Matthew Harrison, a top biotech analyst at Morgan Stanley, estimates that the entire United States will not reopen until midsummer. But if we are not careful now, before the health care system has a chance to recover from the current crisis, the expected second wave of outbreaks will occur, and insufficient medical capacity will turn it into a disaster. In addition, there is no reason to believe that officials ’claims about whether it is safe to go out in the future will eventually suppress consumption and production to a greater extent than other methods.
However, it is assumed that the second wave of the epidemic has been avoided and the &quot;restart&quot; can proceed smoothly. Even so, progress will be slow. Some industries—particularly manufacturing and construction—should be able to resume work relatively quickly with the help of additional protective equipment. But most analysts recommend that before the vaccine permanently eliminates the virus threat, any restart measures should be carried out while maintaining &quot;social alienation&quot; and restrictions on public assembly. This will become a major drag on the economy. Car manufacturers may start working again, but if consumers are afraid to buy a car from a dealer, it is useless. In the long run, more than 20% of American laborers (such as hairdressers and dentists) need to be very close to others to complete their work.
At the more right-wing American Enterprise Institute (AEI), Scott Gottlieb helped draft a &quot;road map&quot; to restart the US economy. He expects that before the advent of the vaccine, about 80% of economic activity will return to normal. Compared to the current situation, this will be a major improvement; but for tens of millions of Americans, this will still be a disaster. Therefore, Goldman Sachs now says that the US job market at the end of 2021 will be as bad as the previous trough in 2010.
The experience of other countries and regions is not particularly encouraging. South Korea is the only wealthy democratic country to control large-scale outbreaks after the outbreak. Therefore, if the situation is as smooth as possible for the United States, South Korea may be the best reference. Although there is no conclusive data, Google ’s analysis of mobile positioning data shows that the number of people in retail, entertainment and transportation locations in South Korea decreased by about 40 from normal in late February and early March (that is, when the epidemic is close to its peak) %. (As of April 5, these data in the United States fell by about 50%.)
Since then, South Korea has successfully reduced the number of new infections per day to less than 30, but as of April 5th, Koreans ’willingness to go to retail and entertainment venues is still 17% weaker than before the crisis. Willingness decreased by 14%. Similarly, no one will go even if the cinema is technically open, which is why Korean cinemas require government support.
Even though the Taiwan region has effectively avoided the virus epidemic and never closed businesses or schools, it is a warning story. According to Google ’s mobile phone positioning data, compared with January, the willingness of Taiwanese to go to retail and entertainment business sites is still reduced by 22%, and the willingness to use public transportation is reduced by 28%. Weekly box office income data shows that Taiwanese have basically stopped going to the cinema since February, although the cinema has never been ordered to close.
After all, if you do n’t eradicate this virus, there is no way to return to normal. This is not to choose between &quot;restarting&quot; or not, but to choose between &quot;a reliable approach&quot; and &quot;disaster&quot;.
　　 
Editor in charge: Wu Jinming