URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-03/doc-iircuyvi1073659.shtml
ID : SINA2020050300019

Date : 2020-05-03 07:55:00
Title : These nine New York nurse stories feel so close and far away (photo)
Ariticle : 
Original title: These 9 New York nurse stories feel so close and far
Source: Longitudinal News
Writer | Reporter Yan Jiahao
According to data from the website of Johns Hopkins University in the United States, as of 9 a.m. Beijing time, the cumulative number of new cases of new coronary pneumonia in the United States has exceeded 1.13 million. More than 310,000 cases.
The New York University Langone Medical Center in New York City has admitted a large number of patients with new coronary pneumonia. For nurses fighting here, rest is a luxury. A spokesman for the hospital told the New York Times that the patients who came to the hospital had already occupied almost every floor of the hospital.
Compared with domestic medical staff who have just experienced the same challenges and have just been recuperated, their American colleagues now feel like they are familiar. The New York Times interviewed nine nurses from the New York University Medical Center who were on the front line of the fight against epidemic disease, and recorded their work, hopes and waits.
　　
　　
　　
In my four-year nurse career, I have never been more anxious than at this moment, and I feel as if I have once again become a rookie nurse. You feel nervous all the time, epinephrine continues to soar, and you do n’t know what will happen next. In short, I think we are all terrified.
Now I will change back to casual clothes when I get off work. I have never done this before. I dare not take my nurse uniforms into the house now, they will be thrown in the backyard by me and sent to the laundry room. And I will never wash my nurse clothes at home again. I won&#39;t even wear the shoes I wear in the hospital home.
It is obvious that people are starting to hide from us because we are nurses, which is frustrating. We are risking our lives and do our best to protect everyone. This makes me feel offended.
　　
　　
Since our hospital started accepting patients with new coronary pneumonia, I have never seen my father with diabetes. When you find that because of your high-risk work, your family may be infected with viruses, or even make them seriously ill, this is terrible. I think this is one of the reasons why people are resistant to participating in the frontline epidemic prevention and control work.
Fears in the eyes of the patients, accompanied by anxiety caused by hypoxia and breathing difficulties, they will ask you in horror: &quot;I am about to die? Can I still see my family?&quot; Still for us, such conversations make people feel uneasy for a long time.
When I think that this kind of life may last for a whole year, I think it is too difficult.
　　
　　
　　
I did hear from my parents about their concerns about racial discrimination caused by the epidemic. When all this began to happen, they heard various rumors of racial discrimination, those happening in the subway and on the street. Their fear of racial discrimination is even greater than the spread of the epidemic itself, which is why they dare not go out of the house.
My family, friends and many Korean Americans in the community have their own stable jobs. They operate a launderette and dry cleaners in the city. In order to make a living, everyone had to take public transportation to work in the city. In the process, they are not blinded by others.
At this moment I can only try to make myself numb. My brain must concentrate on work, so that I do n’t have time to think about how I will deal with the troubles that my family is experiencing today. I have nothing to ask for, just want to do what is right in front of me.
　　
　　
　　
After work, I have to go home to take care of four children, so I cannot isolate myself. I still insist on breastfeeding my little daughter. After finishing the night shift and taking care of the critically ill patients in the ward, I felt exhausted. Although tired, I still have to continue. As a nurse, I cannot stand back.
This morning I had a patient who had a sharp turnaround and she was lying alone on the bed as she died. I had to make a choice at that time: whether to wear protective clothing and stay with her in the ward for ten more minutes, or let her walk the last journey alone.
I have been a nurse for 12 years. If I let her die alone without her family, it would make me uneasy. For me and many other medical staff, this situation is indeed very difficult. These patients are fighting the disease alone, and at this time they can only count on doctors and nurses to help them make decisions.
I haven&#39;t really cried in front of the children because we have learned to separate work and life. But sometimes this is really too heavy. This morning I saw our resident crying, tears running down the eyes behind the mask. Other nurses and I couldn&#39;t help crying. We are all mortals, and we can only bear so much.
　　
　　
　　
For our generation, the new crown pneumonia epidemic is the time to truly test us.
After the outbreak, I quickly realized that this was not just a &quot;public health event&quot;, it was also testing &quot;whether our generation of medical workers are really ready&quot;. We know this will be a battle. At least on the spiritual level, this is a &quot;war epidemic.&quot; It is a battle in itself to help these patients keep healthy and safe from such a highly contagious virus day after day.
Everything has two sides. On the one hand, we are nervous, anxious, and exhausted to ensure the safety and stability of the patient; in turn, we will tell ourselves that when all this is over, we can proudly say that we are part of a team, Overcome huge difficulties. We do not insult our mission.
　　
　　
　　
I have been working in the field of anti-epidemic disease since the first day, and that was also the first day when I ended my vacation and returned to work. This is a virus we have never encountered, so everything seems very difficult. When you are a novice nurse, you will feel scared every time you encounter new challenges. As you continue to repeat these tasks, you will find the rhythm and slowly understand, &quot;Well, but it is pneumonia. I have seen this situation and I can handle it.&quot;
However, now that the outbreak of New Coronary Pneumonia suddenly broke out, we don&#39;t know what virus this is. So from the perspective of a nursing staff, this is a little scary, because every day when you start working, you are faced with different treatment options. You must work hard to adapt to these changes and do your best to take care of your patients.
What happens if the medical staff are sick? If medical staff fall ill because of lack of protective equipment, who will take care of the patient? I don&#39;t think our country will lack protective materials. Whenever I see pictures of nurses working in other countries, they wear a full set of protective equipment in front of the camera, but you will hear stories about nurses having to wear garbage bags to protect themselves. I think this is too ironic.
　　
　　
　　
I remember at the beginning of March, that was my sixth month as a nurse. So these are still very new to me. At this time, I may be experiencing a second time in my future career as a nurse. I think it is very interesting to think of here. But I also saw people arguing in some professional nursing forums, &quot;This is our mission as a nurse, now is the time for us to stand up.&quot;
In a way, it is. On the other hand, when we became nurses, we did not expect this to happen to the shortage of materials we face today. The shortage of protective materials at the national and even the global level is a situation that I never expected. I don&#39;t think anyone would hope that everything will become like it is today. But it did happen, and it looks like we should have prepared for the worst possible scenario of this kind.
While in nursing school, we learned how to prepare for disasters and were exposed to different first aid programs and first aid equipment. At the time, I thought, &quot;Okay, just learn it, anyway, I won&#39;t need it anyway.&quot; I didn&#39;t take those courses seriously. But now a year has passed, all this really happened.
　　
　　
　　
I&#39;m a nurse in the oncology department. I&#39;m good at dealing with patients to make them feel comfortable and forget about the pain. But my current working state is to walk into the ward and leave quickly after finishing the operation. I don&#39;t think I am with them wholeheartedly, which will be a disgraceful part of my nurse&#39;s career.
If in the past, I would ask the patient: &quot;Where do you come from and where is your home?&quot; I also often chat with the patients&#39; families. But now if the patient asks me to stay in the ward a little longer, when I finally get out of the ward, I can&#39;t help but get angry: do the patients not understand that they are threatening my life? And I hate this feeling, because this is not the real me.
Understanding empathy is part of nursing work. Because of the new coronavirus, many of us have lost this ability, which is terrible. I am heartbroken. Because I wanted to go out with the patients and take their hands, but now I ca n’t do it.
　　
　　
　　
I am very grateful to my colleagues and my hospital. I have full confidence in my team, they are capable of handling many situations, strong, smart and resilient. I think if we can finally overcome the epidemic, everyone will undoubtedly become an important part of each other&#39;s life. There are always many difficult and difficult times in life, and those who accompany you at these times will make you remember.
I can&#39;t take care of my two-year-old son by myself, which makes me feel uncomfortable. I do n’t want my child to be at risk of being infected. Every day I will video chat with him, but sometimes my mother thinks this is not a good idea. Because whenever I video chat with my son, he will run around the house, calling my name, looking for the traces of my mother. Sometimes I really think it would be easier for him to temporarily forget me, but I am not sure how long the epidemic will last. I do n’t want my son to really forget me.
(Original title: &quot;Sickness in the eyes of patients&quot;, voice from the frontline of anti-epidemic &#39;Patients Have Panic in Their Eyes&#39;: Voices From a Covid-19 Unit)
postscript:
With the spread of the New Coronary Pneumonia epidemic all over the world, every medical worker who fights on the front line is a soldier who saves lives. But taking off their white coats, they are also ordinary people with flesh and blood. After reading the words of these nurses, we should cherish the hard-won epidemic prevention and control situation in China. Under the white clothes, let us pay the highest respect and gratitude to all medical personnel.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu