URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iircuyvi0844034.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100029

Date : 2020-05-01 12:40:00
Title : The National Intelligence Agency ’s statement is not good enough to keep Trump still talking
Ariticle : 
Original title: Statements issued by the National Intelligence Agency are not easy to use, Trump still speaks hard
Trump&#39;s efforts to hype &quot;the new crown originates from the Wuhan Laboratory&quot;, the US media have emphasized that he did not provide any evidence and details. . . . . .
Although the National Intelligence Agency agrees to agree with the broad consensus in the scientific community that the new corona virus is not artificial and has not been genetically modified, Trump still works hard to speculate that the &quot;new corona virus originates from the Chinese laboratory&quot;.
On April 30, local time, the Office of the Director of the National Intelligence Agency issued a statement on the official website that the intelligence community agreed with the broad consensus in the scientific community that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified.
But in the White House later, Trump still insisted that he announced that he had evidence that the new coronavirus was related to the laboratory in Wuhan, China.
When asked by reporters that day whether he had seen any evidence that made him highly believe that the Wuhan Virus Research Institute was the source of the new coronavirus, Trump said: &quot;Yes, I have (seen).&quot;
But when the reporter subsequently asked what kind of evidence he made, Trump did not give specific evidence, but said: &quot;I can&#39;t tell you, I&#39;m not allowed to tell you.&quot;
However, when reporting on Trump&#39;s assertions, American media have emphasized that he did not provide any evidence or details. The US Consumer News and Business Channel (CNBC) wrote directly in the title that Trump suspected that the new coronavirus outbreak came from a Chinese laboratory, but (but) provided no evidence.
&quot;Capitol Hill&quot; also mentioned that he did not provide further details.
CNN said that Trump refused to provide details to support his claims. CNN also mentioned that his remarks contradicted the views of the US intelligence community.
Earlier in the day, the Office of the Director of the National Intelligence Agency issued a statement that was diametrically opposed to Trump&#39;s position and consistent with the current scientific consensus. The statement clearly states that the intelligence community agrees with the scientific community ’s broad consensus that the new coronavirus is not artificial or genetically modified.
In an interview with American media, including the American University of Columbia Professor Lipkin, known as the &quot;Virus Hunter&quot;, repeatedly stated that the new coronavirus is very similar to the virus found on bats, and it cannot be biosynthetic. There is currently no evidence that the virus accidentally leaked from the laboratory. Lipkin said that in recent years, human society has been continuously attacked by new viruses, essentially because of the destruction of nature by humans.
Earlier, Yuan Zhiming, director of the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory (Wuhan P4 Laboratory), accepted an interview with Reuters and publicly refuted this absurd conspiracy theory. Yuan Zhiming said in an exclusive interview that the claim that &quot;the new crown virus was synthesized by the Wuhan Institute of Virology&quot; is groundless. Yuan Zhiming said that the accusation of &quot;maliciousness&quot; in the laboratory of Wuhan Virus Research Institute was &quot;out of nothing&quot; and contradicted all the existing evidence. &quot;We are not willing to design and create a new coronavirus, and we do not have this ability.&quot; Reuters also admitted in the report that the origin of the new coronavirus is still &quot;inconclusive.&quot;
CNBC also mentioned that earlier in the day, a report in the New York Times &quot;Trump administration officials allegedly pressured intelligence personnel to link the virus to the laboratory&quot;. The report writes that senior Trump administration officials have asked US spy agencies to seek evidence to support the “unfounded theory” that a laboratory in Wuhan was the source of the new coronavirus outbreak.
The article also stated that some analysts are concerned that pressure from senior US government officials may distort the assessment of the new coronavirus (origin) and be used as a weapon in the escalating war with China.
In addition, Trump&#39;s remarks also caused heated discussions among netizens. Although it has attracted some supporters, many netizens think that this is a &quot;conspiracy theory&quot;, and Trump is &quot;throwing the pot&quot; without evidence.
&quot;Obviously this is a conspiracy theory ...&quot;
&quot;This is now. He will say tomorrow that he has evidence that the new coronavirus is from Iran.&quot;
&quot;Trump will never stop lying&quot;
&quot;He is lying. If this is true, we will see that the United States will have a series of actions against Wuhan, right? He is just creating distractions for his own benefit.&quot;
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu