URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/xl/2020-05-02/doc-iircuyvi0926460.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200022

Date : 2020-05-02 04:52:00
Title : People&#39;s Daily: How can &quot;dumping the pot&quot; save lives
Ariticle : 
Original title: How can &quot;dump the pot&quot; save lives (bells)
——Making rumours against China ’s anti-epidemic is contrary to international justice (2)
In the face of the catastrophe, choosing hatred and attacking will not only help you overcome difficulties, but will also cast a shadow on the world
The epidemic raged, and human lives were critical. Some US politicians, represented by US Secretary of State Pompeo, sang together with Fox News and other right-wing media in the United States. In order to shirk their responsibility for ineffective treatment, they played the game of &quot;dumping the pot&quot;. Lies such as &quot;China&#39;s concealment of the epidemic&quot; and &quot;WHO delay time&quot; have emerged one after another. According to media reports, the recent election guidelines issued by the Republican Party of the United States clearly stipulated that they should adopt a uniform approach to the epidemic situation and &quot;dump the pot&quot; in China. This has become their carefully planned election strategy. This political manoeuvre made their sinister intentions clear to the world.
Where does the new coronavirus originate? This is a serious scientific issue that requires rigorous and professional traceability investigations by scientists. The Spanish flu originated in the United States at that time. Medical experts worked hard, and for more than 100 years, the &quot;patient zero&quot; has not been determined. People can&#39;t help but ask, why are those American politicians and right-wing media people arrogant and arrogant? In fact, the so-called &quot;synthetic virus leak&quot; was unanimously refuted by the global scientific community including American medical experts as soon as it was exported. Authoritative academic journals such as &quot;The Lancet&quot; and &quot;Nature · Medical&quot; have published articles emphasizing the natural origin of the virus. Some medical experts bluntly stated that instead of saving people on the present day, they are entangled in the origin of the virus, which is tantamount to &quot;murder.&quot; Throughout the ages, those who only wanted to extract political capital in the face of the catastrophe will eventually be nailed to the stigma of history.
Conspiracy is most afraid of sunlight. The “Grey Zone”, an independent news investigation website in the United States, specifically publishes articles about how conservative journalists sing “double reeds” with the US government, and details the whole process of concocting and disseminating conspiracy theories. Vincent Lacanillo, an expert in microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, has a thorough understanding of the defamation of China through the epidemic, pointing out that the so-called &quot;viruses may be artificially made&quot; that some people spread may be leaked from the laboratory The rumors that come out are all &quot;politically driven&quot; and have no scientific basis. Virologist Jason Kindracak of the University of Manitoba in Canada published an article on the Forbes magazine website that this is an argument that is not supported by scientific evidence and is not worth refuting.
A wave is unsettled, and a wave rises again. Some American politicians have reached a point where they can&#39;t get rid of the pot. The &quot;throwing the pot&quot; in China is not enough, and the WHO has to &quot;throw the pot&quot;. Instead of reflecting on their &quot;catastrophic&quot; approach to the epidemic, they blamed the spread of their country&#39;s epidemic on &quot;China and WHO delayed notification.&quot; A person of insight pointed out that China has always kept information open and transparent. On January 3, it notified WHO and the relevant prevention and control agencies in the United States. The WHO released information to the world as soon as possible. In Shanghai and Guangzhou, the first patient was notified on January 20, and in the United States on January 21, the first case was reported. The time difference is only one day, but the results of prevention and control are very different. A few days ago, more than 1,000 medical associations, charities, pharmaceutical companies, experts and scholars in the world sent letters to the White House, pointing out that WHO and the Chinese government have always maintained close communication to ensure that the international community is informed of public health data as soon as possible. China shared the gene sequence of the new coronavirus for the first time, which provided the basic conditions for accelerating vaccine research and development. In the words of Richard Houghton, editor-in-chief of The Lancet, after the WHO declared a state of emergency, it still does nothing. It is the responsibility of Member States, not China ’s fault. The world should thank China for its warning and anti-epidemic Work hard.
The United States is currently the region with the worst epidemic in the world. Various errors in the government&#39;s response have aroused general dissatisfaction from all walks of life. In order to shirk their responsibilities, some politicians in the United States have played a blinding way that is understandable to outsiders. The memo, which was exposed by the media, provided guidance for Republican participating candidates to attack China around the epidemic. The memorandum is 57 pages long, and the core purpose is only one: &quot;throwing the pot.&quot;
Scientists around the world are generally worried that the new coronavirus that is ravaging the world is a new type of virus. Before the breakthrough in vaccine research and development, it will take time for humans to completely get rid of their life-swallowing and health hazards. In the current disaster, the crisis is critical, and we can only help each other to overcome the difficulties. Only when we work together can we meet the challenges. Singapore ’s Straits Times website published a comment stating: &quot;U.S. leaders playing blame games will only put more people ’s lives in danger ... For the United States and its allies, the focus is on saving lives and working with China Cooperation to find an effective vaccine will be much more effective. &quot;
Lincoln has a famous saying: &quot;You may deceive everyone at some time, or you may deceive some people at all times, but it is impossible to deceive everyone at all times.&quot; Some politicians in the United States simply believe that they can deceive the world! China fights against the epidemic with the power of the whole country, uses the unprecedented &quot;closing the city&quot; to stop the epidemic, and explores the experience of diagnosis and treatment with treatment at no cost. China&#39;s efforts and contributions should be respected. This is obvious to all, and it can never be changed by some people&#39;s political manipulation! Jeffrey Sachs, a professor at Columbia University in the United States, called: &quot;The United States must learn from other countries. Global cooperation and sharing of best practices are our greatest hope for safely exiting this crisis.&quot;
In the face of the catastrophe, choosing hatred and arrogance will not only help you overcome difficulties, but will also cast a shadow on the world. In fact, the rising number of deaths in the United States is just the result of inaction. I advise some politicians in the United States to ignore life and destroy humanity, drink thirst and quench their thirst and eat bitter fruits. Your full performance of &quot;throwing the pot&quot; will only be a farce for self-deception. What you need to do the most right now is to have fewer &quot;dump pot&quot; performances, more anti-epidemic actions; less unwarranted noise, more humane due diligence; less malicious instigation, and more attitudes to admit mistakes. Only in this way can we save lives and end tragedies.
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu