URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-05-02/doc-iirczymi9457507.shtml
ID : SINA2020050200024

Date : 2020-05-02 06:43:00
Title : Governor of Heilongjiang: Deep reflection on the painful lessons of the collective infection in Harbin and Mudanjiang
Ariticle : 
Original title: Governor of Heilongjiang Province: Profound reflection on the painful lessons of the collective infection in Harbin and Mudanjiang
On May 1, Wang Wentao, commander of the command team of the Heilongjiang Provincial Party Committee Deputy Governor, Governor, and Provincial Leadership Team for Response to New Coronavirus Infection and Pneumonia, hosted a video conference in Daqing.
The meeting emphasized that the spirit of General Secretary Xi Jinping ’s important speech at the Politburo Standing Committee meeting should be earnestly implemented, and the spirit of the Central Leading Group Meeting on the New Coronary Pneumonia Outbreak Work chaired by Premier Li Keqiang should be implemented and compared with the State Council ’s Joint Prevention of New Coronavirus Pneumonia Issues and work requirements raised in the report issued by the Comprehensive Group of Control Mechanism on the situation of the new coronary pneumonia cluster epidemic in Heilongjiang Province, further enhance the political position, deepen ideological understanding, draw lessons deeply, reflect on the exposed problems, and promptly investigate loopholes, Make up for the shortcomings, take firm and decisive actions, improve and strengthen the prevention and control measures, resolutely reverse the passive situation of the work, and make due contributions to consolidating the nation&#39;s epidemic prevention and control.
The meeting emphasized that the overseas imported cases in Harbin and Mudanjiang were associated with local epidemic outbreaks, which had bad effects and painful lessons, and brought new pressure on the nation to consolidate the hard-won epidemic prevention and control achievements. It is necessary to profoundly reflect on the bulletin and point out that we have inadequate understanding of the epidemic prevention and control situation, the weak links in the pre-hospital prevention and control measures, the failure to carry out the nucleic acid testing in a timely manner, and the poor implementation of nosocomial infection prevention and control measures. All cities and regions should use this as a mirror to tighten the string of epidemic prevention and control, resolutely eliminate war-weariness and paralysis, and take the actual results of epidemic prevention and control as a test to enhance the &quot;four consciousness&quot; and firmness. The touchstone for &quot;four self-confidences&quot; and &quot;two maintenances&quot; puts the highest priority on safeguarding people&#39;s lives and health, resolutely shoulders political responsibilities, fulfills local responsibilities, and defends foreign defenses with a firm determination to complete the battle A tough battle of input and internal anti-rebound.
The meeting emphasized that it is necessary to be cautious and conscientious in all aspects of normal epidemic prevention and control. We will do our best to conduct a large-scale investigation of the &quot;May Day&quot; holiday, seize this critical window period, and comprehensively conduct a short-term large-scale investigation of epidemic prevention and control loopholes in the province. Continue to do normal control. Take county as the unit to improve the nucleic acid detection ability as soon as possible, and try our best to do the required inspection, the required inspection and the willing inspection. Provincial hospitals must strictly implement the requirements of pre-testing and triage, complete inspection, standard protection, expanded testing, and strict escort requirements, and resolutely prevent cross-infection in hospitals. Strengthen isolation management and control, and adopt centralized isolation measures for all the contactors and the contactors of the contactors. Concentrate on the medical treatment of existing patients. Do not relax border control.
The person in charge of the Provincial Health and Health Commission, Harbin and Mudanjiang Prevention and Control Headquarters, and Harbin Medical University made a speech at the meeting.
Zhang Anshun, Li Haitao, Wang Yongkang, Jia Yumei, Sun Dongsheng, Bi Baowen, Cheng Zhiming, Shen Ying, Xu Jianguo and Li Yi attended the meeting.
Source: Wang Kun Xue Liwei Li Meishi / Heilongjiang Daily
Editor in charge: Zhang Yu