URL : https://tuoitre.vn/co-co-hoi-san-xuat-vacxin-ngua-covid-19-made-in-vietnam-20200504081546864.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400003

Date : 2020-05-04 08:46:00
Title : Opportunity to produce COVID-19 vaccine &#39;made in Vietnam&#39;
Ariticle : 

TTO - Among about 80 vaccine developers around the world who test this vaccine on mice, there is a Vietnamese name: Vaccine and Medical Biological One Member Limited Company (VABIOTEC), Ministry of Health.




Vietnam focuses on researching and producing vaccines against COVID-19



COVID-19 vaccine fair distribution globally



COVID-19 Vaccine: Are people betting too risky?




A technician checks product quality at No. 1 Vaccine and Biological One Member Limited Company, Ministry of Health - Photo: NGUYEN KHANH KHANH
Right from the first days of the outbreak, the company&#39;s vaccine researchers began to come up with the idea of researching and producing the COVID-19 vaccine, and that really came until colleagues at the Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology Centralized isolation of new strain of corona virus.
Will the opportunity to produce COVID-19 vaccine &quot;made in Vietnam&quot; be realized, especially when VABIOTEC has successfully researched and produced Japanese B vaccination vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine, influenza virus vaccine poultry H5N1?
According to Do Tuan Dat - VABIOTEC director, injecting into mice is considered one of the first steps in the process of researching and producing the vaccine, after the researchers &quot;inserted&quot; the corona virus antigen into the vaccine.
After testing on mice, the company&#39;s researchers took mouse blood to send to the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology assessment, expected 2-3 weeks to see results.
&quot;If the evaluation results are good, have an immune response, we will participate in the vaccine selection, then conduct the dosing, animal testing, small groups and large groups of volunteers&quot; - he Dat shared.
Although an experienced vaccine manufacturer, it is not without great difficulties for Vietnamese vaccine developers. Vietnam has been researching and producing vaccines since the 1960s (starting with the polio vaccine, then the oral cholera vaccine), but the vaccine manufacturing technology still follows the old-fashioned way, ie following the stitches and Each stage lasts 2-3 years.
The process of research and production of the vaccine was too long, leading to the availability of vaccines such as the H5N1 avian influenza vaccine. A very good vaccine, elaborately produced but had to &quot;shelve&quot;.
This time, the opportunity comes when VABIOTEC is having a research cooperation program with the University of Bristol (UK), with 4 researchers who have been trained at Bristol University, plus the first funding from domestic funds. for vaccine research and development.
&quot;Previously, the capital for developing the vaccine was from the State, if it was invested, it was required to produce results, while not always researching products&quot; - Mr. Dat said.
With the COVID-19 vaccine, there are currently 70-80 vaccine manufacturers around the world that are in the same phase as VABIOTEC, that is, they have been tested on mice, with 8 manufacturers conducting parallel testing on their mobile devices. objects and try on people. This is a fast, new way and has &quot;risk&quot; elements.
Vietnam is following the steps of these eight manufacturers to assess the situation, and in case of eligibility, VABIOTEC can also conduct COVID-19 research faster than the traditional process. However, it will take 2-3 months to confirm this opportunity.
US testing 14 potential vaccines
According to the newspaper
The Hill
US health officials said Tuesday that at least 14 types of corona virus vaccines are being developed under the &quot;Operation Warp Speed&quot; program of the administration of President Donald Trump to promote the process of putting the vaccine into use. Use from early January to 2021.
These are the potential vaccines selected for weeks from 93 vaccines studied by 80 pharmaceutical companies as part of a joint project between private pharmaceutical companies and government agencies and the US military, aiming to Shorten vaccine production to a maximum of 8 months only.
In the next two weeks, these 14 vaccines will be tested further and US health officials hope to select about 6-8 of them for clinical trials. The ultimate goal is to have three or four vaccines in the final test round before being launched early next year.
According to health officials, although there is no guarantee that any of the 14 vaccines will be selected for the final round, they are optimistic that there is a reasonable probability that one or more of the vaccines will be available. The vaccine will give good results. After finding an effective vaccine, US researchers and health officials will work hard to quickly manufacture and produce the vaccine for more than 300 million people in the country.
Earlier, President Trump praised &quot;Operation Warp Speed,&quot; and said he was directly monitoring the program and pledged to accelerate unprecedented steps. The program has the participation of many US federal agencies such as Department of Defense, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture ... (
TUONG NGUYEN)



Vietnam has already tested the COVID-19 vaccine on mice

TTO - Mr. Do Tuan Dat, director of the No. 1 Vaccine and Biological Products Company, Ministry of Health - the unit that is developing the vaccine against COVID-19 - said the researchers of the company had injected test vaccines on mice and Taking blood to evaluate the effectiveness of prevention.




LAN ANH
