URL : https://tuoitre.vn/dh-oxford-thu-thanh-cong-vacxin-ngua-corona-tren-khi-20200429095634555.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900006

Date : 2020-04-29 10:18:00
Title : Oxford University successfully tested the corona vaccine in monkeys
Ariticle : 

TTO - In the global race to find a vaccine against COVID-19, Oxford University scientists have just made a breakthrough with the success of testing vaccines on monkeys very close to humans.




Russia worries about the economic unbearable because of COVID-19 epidemic



Young doctor died of COVID-19 before the wedding



COVID-19 outbreak on 29-4: The US exceeded 1 million cases, Vietnam had 0 new cases




Ms. Elisa Granato vaccinated in the first clinical trial program in the UK - Photo: OXFORD University
According to the radio
CBS
, testing of a vaccine called &quot;ChAdOx1 nCoV-19&quot; on human body of Oxford University is also being conducted and scientists of this project say they are very hopeful that an available vaccine can be produced in large scale. widely in September this year.
This dramatic breakthrough is due to the team that owns the vaccine making technology that was developed in previous research with other viruses, including a virus that is &quot;related&quot; to the virus. Translation COVID-19.
&quot;In my personal opinion, I am very confident about this vaccine, because it is the technology I have used before,&quot; said Sarah Gilbert, a professor of vaccines at Oxford University.
The vaccine takes the genetic material of the new strain of corona virus into a neutralized cold virus so that it cannot spread the disease to humans. This modified virus mimics the virus that causes COVID-19, activating the immune system to attack the &quot;fake&quot; corona virus, helping the body produce antibodies against the real corona virus.
This vaccine has been shown to protect and protect 6 rhesus macaque monkeys in experiments exposed to very large amounts of corona virus.
In a clinical trial underway with the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, 550 participants were given vaccines and 550 others were not.
&quot;It felt like I could finally do something ...&quot;, said the scientist and volunteer of clinical trials of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, Elisa Granato. &quot;This is a way for me to contribute to something meaningful.&quot;
In order not to waste time, the world&#39;s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer based in India, will start producing millions of doses of vaccine developed by the Oxford team at the University of Oxford next month, even when they are still in the Test section in the UK.
According to the South China Morning Post, the Indian Serum Institute announced on April 28 that it plans to produce up to 60 million doses of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University.
6 corona vaccines are in clinical trials
According to Sputnik news agency, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced last week that a total of six COVID-19 vaccines have entered the human-testing phase and that 77 other vaccines are still in development. different.
According to Sputnik, China&#39;s pharmaceutical company SinoVac began clinical trials of one of its vaccines on 144 people after finding that the vaccine could help treat rhesus macaque monkeys infected with new strains of corona.



Tom Hanks and his wife donated plasma to create anti-corona vaccine

TTO - Returning home and fully recovering from COVID-19 infection, the famous Hollywood actor and his wife Rita Wilson have indicated they will donate plasma to scientists to prepare a vaccine against the disease.




D. KIM THA HAB
