URL : https://tuoitre.vn/who-bien-chung-covid-19-rat-hiem-gap-o-tre-em-20200430105529777.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000009

Date : 2020-04-30 12:04:00
Title : WHO: COVID-19 complications are rare in children
Ariticle : 

TTO - The vast majority of children with COVID-19 have mild symptoms and will recover completely, but a small number of children in some countries have developed a rare inflammatory syndrome, which is the latest WHO view.




Are children less likely to be infected with COVID-19?



Spain has to keep children out of their homes due to seasonal stress



UNICEF warns of the risk of child abuse in the internet environment caused by COVID-19




A family in Istanbul, Turkey gathered at a meal on April 25, 2020 during the local time of implementing a 4-day curfew to prevent the COVID-19 epidemic - Photo: REUTERS
Italian and British health experts are investigating the possible link between the COVID-19 pandemic and groups of children with severe infections who are hospitalized with high fever and swollen arteries.
In the US also
3 children are being treated for a rare inflammatory syndrome with similar characteristics.
Prior to this information, at an online press conference on April 29, Mr. Mike Ryan - the highest expert in emergency matters of WHO, said: &quot;I want to emphasize that all parents are the majority. The number of children with COVID-19 has only mild symptoms and will fully recover. &quot;
To date, most children do not experience serious complications of COVID-19. The most severe and severe impact of this disease still occurs primarily in elderly patients and those with underlying medical conditions.
The WHO immunologist, Dr. Maria van Kerkhove, said the WHO clinical network discussed the UK report that a small group of children had inflammatory response syndrome.
&quot;There are some rare recent descriptions of children in some European countries with inflammatory syndrome, similar to Kawasaki syndrome, but it seems very rare,&quot; said Maria van Kerkhove. Kawasaki disease, also known as mucosal lymph node syndrome, is a disease in which blood vessels throughout the body become inflamed.
&quot;We have asked the global network of clinicians to be vigilant about this so they can systematically gather information so we can better understand and guide treatment.&quot; she continued.
Also at the press conference, Mr. Ryan declined to comment on media reports saying that the remdesivir antiviral drug of Gilead Science could help treat COVID-19 patients. He said that it is necessary to wait for more data from the ongoing clinical trials.
In related developments, the WHO Director-General, Mr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, continued to defend the WHO position in the way that it has resolved COVID-19 since the pandemic broke out late last year in Wuhan, China.
Over the past few weeks, the United Nations-based health agency, Geneva (Switzerland), has faced severe criticism, especially from its largest donor, the United States, about how to deal with it. WHO COVID-19 pandemic.



COVID-19 epidemic morning 30-4: Vietnam on the 14th day no new cases, the world 1 million cases recovered

TTO - The number of people recovering worldwide has reached nearly 1 million, accounting for nearly 1/3 of the total more than 3 million cases of COVID-19. Meanwhile, sources say the Trump administration is pressing to accelerate vaccine development.




D. KIM THA HAB
