URL : https://tuoitre.vn/ha-noi-tiep-tuc-dung-lam-dep-massage-xem-phim-chi-cho-phep-cat-toc-20200428214611275.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900002

Date : 2020-04-28 22:18:00
Title : Hanoi continues to stop beauty, massage, watching movies, only allowed to cut hair
Ariticle : 

TTO - Continue social spacing in 2 districts of Thuong Tin and Me Linh. Hanoi continues to stop operating bars, discos, karaoke, beauty facilities, except barber shops ...




Back to school after the holidays COVID-19 epidemic room: All kinds of spacing



Relax, still need to remember these 5 things



Libraries, reading rooms in Ho Chi Minh City must ensure a distance of 1 meter or more




Continue to request the suspension of massage parlors, bars, etc., only allow haircuts to resume operation - Photo: TRUONG TRUNG
In the instruction to implement COVID-19 prevention has just been President
Hanoi
Nguyen Duc Chung signed today (April 28), Hanoi still has two districts in the high-risk group, Me Linh and Thuong Tin, which must continue to implement social spacing as prescribed in the Prime Minister&#39;s Directive 16. Other districts continued to gather no more than 20 people in public places.
The President of Hanoi also requested to continue stopping festive activities, religious ceremonies, sports tournaments, events with large crowds in public, stadiums and unnecessary large events.
Continuing to suspend the operation of non-essential service establishments, amusement parks, entertainment centers, bars, discos, karaoke, beauty establishments, except barbershop ...
Inter-provincial and inter-provincial public transport activities are resumed, but passengers and drivers must wear masks, medical declarations, soap arrangements or disinfectant solutions.
Particularly for Me Linh and Thuong Tin districts, besides the requirement of social separation, Hanoi allows vehicles to travel on inter-provincial roads and highways in high-risk areas but not stopping, parking, pick up and take guests.
Reduce / expand the number of students in the school, dispose of the class time, lunch time, crowded group activities, perform disinfection, combine online classes, implement preventive measures for the student.
The City People&#39;s Committee assigns the Department of Health to continue detecting, isolating, zoning, thoroughly handling outbreaks, applying information technology to search for potential risk of infection.
Department of Industry and Trade researched and worked out a plan to restart production and business activities, ensuring raw materials for production and developing the domestic market.



Hanoi plans to have fashion and cosmetics shops open after 9am

TTO - In order to distance the society during the morning rush hour, Hanoi Chairman Nguyen Duc Chung said the city is drafting regulations on a number of branches and shops to open after 9 am, including business shops. fashion and cosmetics business.




LINEN
