URL : https://tuoitre.vn/con-bi-bong-gia-dinh-chua-theo-chi-dan-cua-nguoi-quen-gay-hoai-tu-20200429161812694.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900008

Date : 2020-04-29 16:47:00
Title : Children were burned, the family treated according to &#39;instructions of acquaintances&#39;, causing necrosis
Ariticle : 

TTO - Children suffered from boiling water burns but the family did not go to the doctor but arbitrarily treated them at home with red medicine, causing serious necrosis of thighs and lower legs.




The first rare pediatric patient in Vietnam to receive a successful bone marrow transplant



The patient who had COVID-19 at the age of 5 days was discharged from the hospital



Because of the patient&#39;s smile




Pediatric D. has saved necrotic thighs and lower legs due to family applying red medicine to treat burns - Photo: Hospital provided
Pediatric H.Đ.D. (7 years old, living in Tan Son district, Phu Tho province) was taken to the Pediatric Center, Phu Tho General Hospital in severe necrosis of thighs and right leg due to boiling water burn.
It is known that when D. suffered burns, the family did not take the children to the medical facilities but bought a solution of red liquid (unknown yet) to apply directly to the wound according to the instructions of ... an acquaintance.
After 5 days of treatment, baby D. had a fever of 39 ° C, the whole area of the wound in the thigh and leg of the blistering, yellow, pusy discharge and the unpleasant odor appeared. examination at the hospital.
Through clinical examination, the doctors determined that the burn injury of the child was quite severe necrosis, the area of lesions was about 16%. The patient was immediately treated with high-dose antibiotics to remedy infection, rehydration, electrolyte balance, and replacement bandages.
After 2 weeks of treatment, the burns of the patient were dry, the skin was well raised, the movement of the knees, legs, and feet were very good, so they were discharged today (April 29).
The process of recovery of children - Photo: Hospital provided
On April 29, information about this serious burn case, MSc Nguyen Duc Lan - Head of Pediatric Surgery Department shared - burn injury of patient D. is located at the right right leg - the position has Great impact on the ability of the knee to bend.
If not treated properly and promptly can lead to skin shrinkage, stiffness due to scarring, adversely affecting the child&#39;s motor skills.
According to Dr. Nguyen Duc Lan, the first aid at home when a child is burned is one of the important factors to help the wound from being deeply ingrained inside and avoiding multiple infections.
&quot;Therefore, when a child accidentally burns, it is necessary to immediately remove the cause of the burn and take the child out of the place of the agent. Take off immediately the clothes, wash the burned skin of the child with clean water at normal temperature and wipe dry with a clean cloth &quot;- Doctor Lan instructed.
According to Dr. Lan, usually, if not exposed to excessive heat and short exposure time, the burn will only be slightly red and burning, the skin burns will not change color to white or black, there is no blistering and will recover after 2-3 days without leaving scars.
&quot;However, if the burn is damaged, observing the discoloration of the burnt skin, the appearance of a large blister, if the child feels sore or the burned area is the face or genitals, parents need to give The child goes to the doctor for immediate treatment.
Absolutely do not use any medicine on the wound. When children are unfortunate to have burns, especially for large-scale injuries and deep wounds, they should be taken immediately to medical facilities for timely examination and treatment, avoiding unfortunate consequences. happened &quot;- Doctor Nguyen Duc Lan emphasized.



Children die because family members arbitrarily treated

TTO - In recent days, Children&#39;s Hospital 2 constantly receives cases of children suffering from burns, snakebites ... but the family arbitrarily treated, causing unfortunate consequences ...




T. HA
