URL : https://tuoitre.vn/dich-covid-19-sang-1-5-khi-nao-co-the-cong-bo-het-dich-tai-viet-nam-20200501060113334.htm
ID : TUOI2020050100001

Date : 2020-05-01 06:23:00
Title : COVID-19 AM 1-5: When can it be announced in Vietnam?
Ariticle : 

TTO - According to current regulations, 28 days after the patient is infected in an isolated community, no longer able to spread will be able to declare the end of the epidemic. It has been 23 days now.




Patient COVID-19 No. 92 in Ho Chi Minh City re-tested, quarantined one apartment block



COVID-19 Can Gio hospital is temporarily closed



COVID-19 epidemic afternoon 30-4: Vietnam more cases cured, UK 2nd European death




Vietnam over 15 days no new patient recognition in the community
This morning, 1-5, the Ministry of Health announced that after 15 days there were no more new COVID-19 patients registered, the total number of patients nationwide was stopped at 270, 219 had recovered, 51 were being treated. .
Given this situation, the question is when can we announce the end of the epidemic in Vietnam? According to current regulations, 28 days from the time an infectious patient in a community is quarantined, no longer capable of spreading the disease will be able to declare the end of the epidemic.
The last community-borne patient in Vietnam was patient 268, in Ha Giang and was declared cured on April 30.
Patient 268 had fever, cough from 7 to 4 and was isolated at Dong Van General Hospital. It has been 23 days now. According to current regulations, it is about to be declared free of epidemic in Vietnam
.
As of 6am on 1-5, the world has
3,303,850
case of COVID-19. The total number of deaths from this disease globally is
233,813
, the total number of recovery cases is
1,039,055
.
Thailand re-exploits domestic flights
According to the newspaper
Bangkok Post
, the Thai government has announced safety instructions on domestic flights, being re-operated from today.
Accordingly, passengers must wear masks all the time, from preparation to boarding. If they do not wear a mask when checking in and cannot find a mask to wear, they will not be allowed to board the flight.
Passengers are also not allowed to eat or drink during the flight. At least 1 empty seat must be left between two passengers.
The exception is only for aircraft with seats that have enough room around them to allow passengers who are not exposed to or to spread viruses or small aircraft under 19 seats to be hired separately. Aircraft under 90 can only carry a maximum of 70% of capacity.
The Russian Prime Minister has COVID-19
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said he was positive for the new strain of corona virus. First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov was appointed acting acting Prime Minister to replace him during his medical treatment.
On April 30, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said he was positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus and President Vladimir Putin approved his proposal to appoint First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov as acting Prime Minister. Russia during his medical treatment.



The Russian Prime Minister has COVID-19

TTO - Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said he was positive for the new strain of corona virus. First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov was appointed acting acting Prime Minister to replace him during his medical treatment.

The situation in New York is good
Regarding the course of the plague in New York,
Comfort Naval hospital ship left New York Harbor on April 30 after a month to the COVID-19 anti-epidemic hospital in case the hospital was overloaded.
According to Reuters, in recent times, the number of cases that this ship needs treatment is too little, never close to the treatment capacity of the ship even though New York is the center of the US epidemic.
This 1,000-bed hospital ship will return to Norfolk, Virginia. The fact that it leaves shows how social distortion measures in New York are effective and
The situation in New York is improving.
Passengers wear a mask when taking the subway in New York, USA April 30 - Photo: REUTERS
To prepare for re-flying domestic routes in the US, t
According to Reuters news agency, the two largest US carriers, Delta Air Lines and American Airlines and small carrier Frontier Airlines, announced that customers had to wear masks on domestic flights.
Earlier, JetBlue Airways also proposed this measure.
The use of masks or other face masks does not apply to children but applies to both crew and passengers.
Updated to 6am on 1-5 (Vietnam time), according to Worldometers, the US has 1,093,077 cases of COVID-19 and 63,785 deaths.
US-China tensions related to the origin of the virus have not cooled yet when President Donald Trump reiterated that he saw the evidence that he was so convinced that
The virus comes from a lab in Wuhan
.
&quot;I cannot say the details because I am not allowed, but I see the evidence,&quot; Reuters quoted the White House leader as saying.
Australian personality for sporting activities
On May 1-5, the Australian Government will discuss how to restart sports activities in the context of a significant reduction in new infections and many states easing social disengagement measures.
So far, Australia has about 6,700 virus infections with 93 deaths, a figure significantly lower than the US, UK, and European countries.
The new incidence in Australia has recently been 0.5% a day, down from 25% in the previous month.
According to a Reuters source, the Canberra government will discuss the principles of sports and recreational activities. The Australian National Baseball Championship (NRL) was suspended after two rounds due to the COVID-19 epidemic and could be restored by the end of May 2020 with the permission of authorities.
On May 1, many states in Australia continued to loosen social measures such as for families to welcome guests, allowing sports to not contact each other, weddings, funerals ...
Japan has not decided to extend the emergency order yet
According to NHK broadcaster, Japan will officially decide whether to extend the emergency order regarding corona virus as early as Monday, 4-5.
Urgent orders in this East Asian country will expire on May 6. According to Reuters sources, the order is likely to be extended.
He passed the peak epidemic
On April 30, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that the UK had now passed the peak of the COVID-19 epidemic, and said next week there would be a roadmap to lift blockade measures nationwide.
According to the BBC, on April 30, the UK had 674 new deaths and 6,032 new infections. To date, about 26,771 people have died from the new strain of corona virus. The total number of UK viral infections is 171,253.
Hong Kong gathered to gather at Labor Day
Many flashmob dance events are scheduled to be held on Labor Day 1-5, despite restrictions on Hong Kong outbreaks.
According to Reuters, during 7 months in 2019, there were protests stemming from protesting an extradition bill to China.
The corona virus calmed the situation for 4 months, but small protests took place last week. Protesters hope today 1-5 will be a big gathering.
According to Reuters news agency, Mexican Health Sector on April 30 recorded 1,425 new infections with corona virus and 127 deaths. To date, Mexico has a total of 19,224 cases and 1,859 deaths from the COVID-19 epidemic.



WHO: COVID-19 complications are rare in children

TTO - The vast majority of children with COVID-19 have mild symptoms and will recover completely, but a small number of children in some countries have developed a rare inflammatory syndrome, which is the latest WHO view.




HONG VAN - L.ANH
