URL : https://tuoitre.vn/covid-19-co-the-lay-qua-duong-tieu-hoa-hay-rua-tay-rua-tay-va-rua-tay-20200501105532958.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200004

Date : 2020-05-02 06:32:00
Title : COVID-19 can be spread through the digestive tract: wash your hands, wash your hands and wash your hands!
Ariticle : 

TTO - Although more evidence is still needed to confirm the potential for SARS-CoV-2 to be transmitted from the gastrointestinal tract, precautions are necessary, especially when the simple prevention method is proper hand washing.




COVID-19 AM 1-5: When can it be announced in Vietnam?



Patient COVID-19 No. 92 in Ho Chi Minh City re-tested, quarantined one apartment block



WHO: COVID-19 complications are rare in children




Proper hand washing is a simple and effective way to prevent COVID-19 - Photo: AFP
Reduce the fluids but don&#39;t loosen the mask and wash your hands
For half a month Vietnam has no new COVID-19 patients while many regions around the world are struggling with the epidemic prevention. This is a great achievement from the strategy of the government, the medical staff and the consent of the people.
The long period of social spacing and the gradual control of the epidemic bring about an excited mood but at the same time, it is a tendency to loosen the recommendations of epidemic prevention.
Wearing masks that have been emphasized in public is necessary and strictly punished when violating. Hand washing is difficult to check, requires high self-awareness, but is a practical, effective solution that contributes to protecting oneself, family and community, especially in the current epidemic phase.
The predominant manifestation of COVID-19, a disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus, is an acute respiratory infection with a risk of severe progression leading to respiratory failure and death. Therefore, public attention is focused on respiratory manifestations (fever, cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, etc.) as well as the risk of infection from discharge and droplets from the respiratory tract.
5 steps to prevent COVID-19 effectively - Source: Ministry of Health
Why wash your hands and wash your hands?
Hand hygiene is not a new problem, has been emphasized by the Ministry of Health, recommended and detailed instructions from the early days of epidemic prevention. However, this measure not only helps prevent respiratory viral infections as many people think.
Recent medical evidence shows the potential for gastrointestinal virus infection and further confirms the importance of hand hygiene to prevent disease in the current period.
A series of reports published in the world&#39;s leading gastrointestinal journals has shown this risk, as reported on March 3, 2020.
Gastroenterology
shows that RNA fragments of the virus and both live viruses may still be found in the stool of people infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Another report on March 19, 2020
Lancet Gastroenterology &amp; Hepatology
showed that the viral RNA fragment could still be found in feces for nearly 5 weeks after the viral RNA test showed a negative result.
Also on March 19, 2020, a review of the above
Alimentary Pharmacology &amp; Therapeutics
shows that people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus may have only gastrointestinal symptoms such as vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea (of which diarrhea is the most common symptom) without any respiratory symptoms.
And another important point is that many people who have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus may have no obvious symptoms. The actual prevalence rate of disease in the community may also be much higher than we think.
A recent community study of more than 3,300 people in Santa Clara County, California, published on April 17, 2020, shows the prevalence of people who have been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. based on testing for antibodies to the virus in the blood) can be up to 2.5-4.0%.
Thus, the latest evidence suggests that there is a potential risk of transmission of disease in the public through the gastrointestinal tract due to the long period of virus elimination in the feces and those infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus may be asymptomatic. .
Right time, right way
Although more evidence is still needed to confirm true gastrointestinal transmission, prevention as soon as the potential transmission is identified should be a priority strategy when dealing with a dangerous virus and rapid spread like SARS-CoV-2, đ
Especially when simple and effective preventive measures are available
Wash hands the right way
.
To avoid transmission from the gastrointestinal tract, hands should be washed before preparing food, before eating and immediately after using the toilet.
Challenges also bring opportunities. Vietnam is a country with fairly common gastrointestinal infections. Hand hygiene helps prevent COVID-19, but it also helps prevent digestive infections.
Seriously practicing hand hygiene not only in the epidemic phase but also in the post-epidemic phase is sure to bring about better digestive health for many Vietnamese.



COVID-19 epidemic 1-5: Vietnam 0 new cases, China left the group of 10 countries with the highest number of cases

TTO - Vietnam does not register new cases until the afternoon of May 1. China is out of the 10 countries with the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the world, the rest of this group is mostly located in Europe and America.




Assoc.Prof. Dr. DUC TRONG DUC (Medical University of Ho Chi Minh City)
