URL : https://tuoitre.vn/nhieu-nuoc-chau-au-dong-duc-tro-lai-nhung-ra-duong-phai-deo-khau-trang-20200504082144947.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400006

Date : 2020-05-04 09:30:00
Title : Many European countries are crowded again but have to wear masks when going out
Ariticle : 

TTO - Most countries choose to gradually remove the measures of blockade and social distance to bring life back to the &#39;new normal&#39;.




South Korean medical experts warned that the outbreak of COVID-19 could break out in the coming winter



Effective anti-epidemic, the ruling coalition of South Korean president won big



Back to school after the COVID-19 epidemic break: All kinds of spacing




Bustling scene returned to Broadway Market, London (England) on 3-5 - Photo: REUTERS
After weeks of applying restrictive measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, some European countries have begun to relax the blockade from today 4-5. Most countries are required to wear a mask when using public transport.
Europe accepts &quot;new normal&quot;
Many European countries have had to accept to return to life after the blockade in the &quot;new normal&quot; status, that is, continue to social distance, wear masks at many points as prescribed ...
In
Belgium
, businesses closed last time preparing employees to return to work from today 4-5. Facemasks become mandatory in public transportation for people over 12 years old. Outdoor sports activities such as tennis, golf or kayaking are allowed to resume.
Most businesses will reopen from May 11, with the condition of ensuring social isolation. Some classes will take students on May 18, with a maximum of 10 people per class. The restaurant is only reopened as early as 8-6 days.
Since 2-5 days, people
Spain
You may begin to walk outside or play sports. Although the blockade order was announced to last until May 9, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced plans to gradually relax the restrictive measures in four stages and is expected to end by the end of the month. 6.
Spain has implemented one of the most stringent blockade orders in the world since March 14 to prevent the spread of COVID-19, whereby adults are only allowed to leave their homes to buy food and medicine. enamel or take the dog for a walk.
In
Italy
, people can visit family and meet relatives in limited numbers. The park will reopen but maintain social distance measures. Production, construction and distribution to agents are allowed to operate from 4-5 days.
Bars, restaurants and beauty parlors are only available for take home customers, with full reopening waiting until June 1. On May 18, all retail businesses, museums, cultural venues and libraries can reopen.
The Italian Ministry of Education announces the closure of secondary schools by September, but is planning to reopen preschools and organize small-scale summer schools for children to have fun after 2 months of executing orders. strict isolation.
The closure of high schools by the end of the school year has been controversial in Italy, due to the widespread opinion that this measure has too much impact on working women and children.
However, part of the reason for the continued closure of schools is the risk of infection for elderly teachers. According to statistics, teachers in Italy have the highest average age among the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with nearly 60% of teachers over 50 years old.
Although it was a rapid infection after China, South Korea has promptly controlled the outbreak and is aiming to lift the social gap and bring life back to normal.
Korea is expected from May 6
The Northeast Asian nation is currently on a four-day celebration of Buddha&#39;s Birthday and Labor Day. The country&#39;s authorities calculated that if the number of new infections after the holiday season continues in its current state, South Korea will lift its social exclusion order on May 6. However, South Korean health officials also warned of the risk of new infections later this year.
Statistics from the Korean Agency for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) as of 16:00 on 3-5 days show that the number of COVID-19 cases in Korea has increased to 10,793 (an increase of 13 cases, mostly &quot; imported&quot;). The number of deaths is still 250, of which more than 50% are patients over 80 years of age and have at least one pre-existing condition.
The number of completely cured patients increased by 60, bringing the total number of recovered patients to 9,183, accounting for 85.1%. The number of infections from foreign countries has exceeded 1,000, of which 91% are Korean citizens.
So far, South Korea has conducted corona virus tests for more than 600,000 people and there are still more than 8,000 people waiting for results. According to the KCDC, the trend of collective infection accounts for over 80% of all infections in South Korea to date and no deaths under the age of 30.
Korean children have fun in the Gimpo shopping area on May 1 - Photo: Reuters
Japan reopened some public places
According to Kyodo News Agency, Japan&#39;s Economic Reconstruction Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said the government would allow the reopening of parks, museums, libraries and some public facilities in Tokyo. Osaka, Kyoto, Hokkaido, Fukuoka and 8 other provinces. These facilities will have to comply fully with measures to prevent the spread of disease.
The government of Prime Minister Abe Shinzo will also issue instructions on how to resume social activities on 4-5 days when announcing the decision to extend (possibly add about a month) to the deadline for imposing orders. The current state of emergency will end on May 6.
At a press conference on April 3-4, Minister Nishimura also affirmed that the government had prepared 1,000 billion yen (9.3 billion USD) through the Regional Economic Relay Fund to fund all businesses. Non-urban areas are facing difficulties due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
&quot;If necessary, we think we can increase the money even further,&quot; Nishimura said. Accordingly, this money will be used for businesses that pay workers for non-working days in the blockade country.
Singapore forward
easing
Singapore Health Minister Gan Kim Yong said the country was about to begin to relax, in turn, with some of the restrictions that were once imposed to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19. Some activities such as home-based businesses, laundry and hair-cutting services will be allowed to reopen from 12 May.
Students will return to school in small groups from May 19. Some workplaces will gradually resume operations depending on the importance of these facilities to the economy, supply chain and the ability to minimize the risk of transmission.
The island nation of 5.7 million is one of the countries with the highest number of COVID-19 cases in Asia, mainly due to the outbreak of disease in cramped dormitories for migrant workers.
A report by Singapore Ministry of Health in the afternoon of 3 to 5 pm showed that on 2-5, the country recorded an additional 657 new cases, bringing the total number of patients of this epidemic here to 18,205 people. It is worth noting that the number of deaths here is still 17 and the number of critical cases is only 24.
Malaysians disagree
According to the newspaper
The Straits Times
, in the morning of 2-5, at least 340,000 Malaysians signed a petition online asking the government not to relax the blockade from April 4.
On May 1, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin announced that it would allow more businesses to resume operations from April 4-5, partially easing the restrictions imposed to curb the COVID-19 epidemic. Prime Minister Yassin stated the decision was based on recommendations from the Ministry of Health Malaysia and the World Health Organization.
According to Mr. Yassin, some measures including wearing masks, implementing social distance and maintaining epidemiological hygiene are still strictly maintained. Sports activities involving no more than 10 participants such as running, badminton and cycling are allowed; Food outlets may reopen but must comply with strict social spacing. Malaysia has not reopened its border, foreign tourism services have not been reopened.



People rushed to travel, South Korea was afraid of breaking again

TTO - Hundreds of thousands of South Koreans have planned to travel during the major holiday season in late April and early May. South Korean health officials have warned the disease could flare up anytime through Asymptomatic infected people.




TUONG NGUYEN
