URL : https://tuoitre.vn/ong-trump-my-se-co-vacxin-phong-covid-19-cuoi-nam-nay-20200504081418739.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400007

Date : 2020-05-04 09:15:00
Title : Mr. Trump: The US will have a vaccine against COVID-19 later this year
Ariticle : 

US health experts say it could take anywhere from one year to 18 months to successfully produce the vaccine and put it into use, but President Trump is confident the United States can do it by the end of this year.




COVID-19 vaccine fair distribution globally



Oxford University successfully tested the corona vaccine in monkeys



Vietnam focuses on researching and producing vaccines against COVID-19




US President Donald Trump gave an interview about reaction to COVID-19 inside Lincoln Memorial Hall in Washington on 3-5 - Photo: REUTERS
In an interview with Dai
Fox News
On the evening of March 3, President Donald Trump said that he was confident the United States would have a COVID-19 vaccine by the end of this year - a timeline even faster than the optimistic predictions made by medical advisors. of his administration.
&quot;We are very confident that we will have the vaccine by the end of this year ... and we are pushing very hard,&quot; - Mr. Trump declared.
The leader&#39;s comments came after news that his administration was urging agencies to speed up the vaccine development process in a new project called &quot;Operation Warp Speed&quot;.
According to the report, the goal of this project is to accelerate vaccine development and have 300 million doses of vaccine available in January 2016.
Earlier, US health experts said that the vaccine against COVID-19 could take anywhere from one year to 18 months to complete. It usually takes years to develop and introduce a vaccine. For example, there hasn&#39;t even been a vaccine to prevent the HIV virus and the Ebola vaccine wasn&#39;t approved until 2019.
Despite the statement &quot;very confident&quot;, according to
The Hill
, President Trump seemed to admit that his prediction would be viewed as ambitious. He himself said that health experts would advise him to avoid making such a statement.
&quot;Doctors will now say, &#39;Oh, you shouldn&#39;t say that&#39;. But I will say what I think. I think we will have the vaccine much sooner rather than later&quot; - President Trump stated.
Last week, Dr. Anthony Fauci, a leading American infectious disease expert and a member of the White House COVID-19 task force team, said on the acceleration of vaccine preparation:
&quot;We want to be fast, but we want to make sure it is safe and effective. I think we can do it if everything goes smoothly.&quot;
Not only the United States, many other countries are also racing to become the first country to successfully develop a vaccine against COVID-19. President Trump said he would still be happy if another country beat American researchers in this race.
&quot;If another country succeeds first, I will admire my hat ... I don&#39;t care, I just want to have a vaccine that works,&quot; Mr. Trump said.

Vietnam has already tested the COVID-19 vaccine on mice

TTO - Mr. Do Tuan Dat, director of the No. 1 Vaccine and Biological Products Company, Ministry of Health - the unit that is developing the vaccine against COVID-19 - said the researchers of the company had injected test vaccines on mice and Taking blood to evaluate the effectiveness of prevention.




PEACE
