URL : https://tuoitre.vn/new-york-roi-cua-dia-nguc-20200430093715058.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000008

Date : 2020-04-30 12:04:00
Title : New York leaves &#39;hell&#39; door
Ariticle : 

TTO - New York Governor Andrew Cuomo recently revealed a 12-step plan to reopen the state. It is a data-based plan that helps people stay safe and allows the economy to reopen.




After domestic cats, more animals in New York have COVID-19



Governor of New York: Forgive our arrogance!



Mr. Trump wants to open the economy, the governor of New York said not sure




US Army &quot;Blue Angels&quot; and &quot;Thunderbirds&quot; squadron flew over the Statue of Liberty in New York while performing to pay tribute to the medical staff between the COVID-19 outbreak on April 28 - Photo: Reuters
This week, the US state of New York recorded a good news: the number of people hospitalized in a day fell to 953 days.
April 27, lower than the 1,052 of the previous day and the lowest in more than a month since March 24. This is in contrast to the situation in early April, when the number of new hospitalizations reached more than 3,000 cases / day.
“Remember we went through hell and then came back for more than 60 days. We must stay alert. It&#39;s not over yet!
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo
Overall auspicious!
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo added that the number of deaths during the day also continued to dwindle on April 27, with 335 new cases, the lowest in April and the third consecutive day under 400 deaths. . &quot;The number of patients still significant. But overall you see the numbers are going down and that&#39;s good news&quot; - Mr. Cuomo shared.
With positive signs, USNS Comfort - a US naval hospital ship - dispatched to ease the pressure on New York hospitals at its peak - is expected to leave April 30. COVID-19 coping activities also appear to be less stressful at the interim federal medical facility in the Javits Center. According to the Cuomo government, 69 patients were still in the Manhattan convention center on April 28.
The Pentagon said patients were in the process of being transferred to local hospitals and were expected to &quot;complete the mission&quot; on May 1. An Cuomo assistant said that Javits could be used as a health center if needed.
In this context, Mr. Cuomo - who has been exchanging words with US President Donald Trump about who is at fault for the crisis caused by COVID-19 - has criticized the World Health Organization (WHO), the federal agency, intelligence community and the mainstream press for not blowing the whistle, warning of COVID-19&#39;s threat early enough. He assumed that the main responsibility was not in the states.
&quot;Where have you been?&quot; - Mr. Cuomo asked questions when he mentioned the first reaction, after the news appeared in December 1919 that traces of the deadly virus have been recorded in China. &quot;Governors of the states do not make global pandemics,&quot; said Cuomo.
New York plays the game
&quot;Russian roulette&quot;?
With the noted improvement trend, Governor Cuomo has in recent days turned its focus to reopening New York state. Mr. Cuomo said it would reopen areas with lower cases faster than places like New York City, the US COVID-19 epidemic.
Earlier this week, Mr. Cuomo revealed a 12-step plan to reopen New York state. In it, he said the areas that want to be reopened depend on indicators such as: the number of beds used for epidemics accounts for less than 70% and the infection rate is below 1.1 - average. 1 in 1 infected person will infect 1.1 others. The current rate in New York state is about 0.8, according to the Wall Street Journal.
He also announced the plan would employ about 30 contacts for every 100,000 people. This means that because the state&#39;s population of 19 million will need about 5,700 employees to track people who have come into contact with infected people to prevent the spread.
New York has been in a &quot;suspended&quot; state since March 22, with many businesses having to close following the order to apply restrictive measures expected to end on May 15. Meanwhile, more than a dozen other states have decided to reopen. Although states have provided many conditions necessary to open the door, health experts still question the ability to monitor and handle the situation later.
&quot;I think they&#39;re playing Russian roulette,&quot; said infectious disease expert John Swartzberg at the University of California-Berkeley. &quot;Russian roulette&quot; is a dangerous and risky game in which the player uses a revolver revolver with a single bullet inside to shoot his head in turn, the survivor will be winner.
&quot;Clearly they are hoping that reopening states will not lead to an increase in cases. But if they reopen without proper testing and contact tracing, there will be more cases. They will not detect them until they begin to be taken to the emergency room as well as to the intensive care unit, &quot;explained Mr. John Swartzberg.
Researchers at Harvard University recently concluded that the US will need to conduct 500,000-700,000 tests a day to start reopening safely. According to USA Today newspaper, the US conducted an average of 210,000 tests / day last week.
It is not clear how Cuomo will promote the 12-step plan and whether his plan will succeed. In the immediate future, he spread the message: &quot;We want to reopen, but we want to do it without causing more people infected or overloading the hospital system.&quot;
Why does the US record more than 1 million cases?
On April 29, the number of COVID-19 cases in the United States surpassed 1 million, accounting for about one-third of the global number of infections. The United States is also the country with the highest number of deaths in the world, with more than 59,000. However, US President Donald Trump explained it with only one reason: extensive testing.
&quot;The only reason the US recorded 1 million new cases of coronavirus infection is because our testing work is much better than any other country in the world. Other countries follow us back.&quot; test work and thus show less cases &quot;- Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter.



Still 606 cases of COVID-19 died a day, New York extended the blockade to 15-5

TTO - Governor Andrew Cuomo on April 16 decided to extend the blockade in New York state until May 15, although the number of deaths from SARS-CoV-2 virus in the state in the past 24 hours was low. at most for 10 consecutive days.




TOLD HIM
