URL : https://tuoitre.vn/tin-tuong-vao-thuoc-remdesivir-2020043023203851.htm
ID : TUOI2020050100003

Date : 2020-05-01 11:33:00
Title : Trust in Remdesivir
Ariticle : 

TTO - Two reports on Remdesivir antiretroviral therapy used to treat COVID-19 patients were published on the same day, but with conflicting results.




China threatened to attack Australia&#39;s economy because it dared to investigate corona virus



WHO: COVID-19 complications are rare in children



COVID-19 epidemic afternoon 30-4: Vietnam more cases cured, UK 2nd European death




Remdesivir was made at Gilead&#39;s facility in La Verne, California - Photo: Reuters
Although the ratio is only 30%, not 100%, this is a very important evidence, enough to prove that this drug can prevent the virus.
Dr. Anthony Fauci (leader of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
Two reports were published on the same day, April 29, in which the report of the US pharmaceutical firm Gilead showed &quot;positive results&quot;, while the Chinese study was published in the prestigious scientific journal The Lancet. then the opposite.
According to the newspaper
The Huffington Post
, it is quite unusual that the results of research on using the same drug have such different results. But Gilead&#39;s clinical research conducted with the US Institute of Health (NIH) partner is said to be larger, more prestigious and expected by the world and similar European Discovery research is about to be announced. result.
US optimistic
&quot;The data shows that Remdesivir has a clear, positive and significant effect in reducing the duration of treatment of COVID-19 patients,&quot; said Dr. Anthony Fauci, a presidential epidemic adviser. news in the daily press conference at the White House on the afternoon of April 19, shortly after the announcement of Gilead Pharmaceuticals. According to him, Remdesivir can now be used as a basic drug to treat severe cases, given by 10-day injection.
Clinical research in the US began on February 21 with 800 patients in the US and several countries. In total, 1,063 patients at 47 points in the US, 21 points in Europe and Asia participated in the study. Some patients have been given Remdesivir and some have been given a placebo, but no one, neither the physician nor the patient, knew the person who received the placebo.
The results published on April 29 of NIH show that compared to patients who received placebo, the patients who received Remdesivir got better in 11 days instead of 15 days. That means the Remdesivir trial drug has helped to improve the recovery time of COVID-19 patients by 31%.
In fact, the mortality rate in this trial between the two groups is not much different. The group treated with Remdesivir had an 8% mortality rate, while in the placebo group it was 11%, so it could only be said that the drug could help the patient revive.
Chinese research &quot;incomplete&quot;
Research results from China published in the prestigious journal The Lancet also on 29-4. Clinical research was conducted in 10 hospitals but with only 237 patients. Results showed that the patients treated with Remdesivir were no better than the placebo. The size of the problem, coupled with the exhaustion of patients in Wuhan, makes the results suspicious. Dr Anthony Fauci also declared the Chinese study &quot;incomplete&quot;.
American research results are thus creating many positive effects. At a White House press conference, US President Donald Trump immediately praised the test results and asked the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to grant marketing permission to Remdesivir. &quot; as soon as possible&quot;.
There is no FDA approval for any medicine used to treat COVID-19. However, according to CNN, under pressure from Mr. Trump, the agency may issue a special license, allowing the widespread use of Remdesivir because of an emergency situation before
license mode.
Of course, if early European research results are available, things will be clearer. Day
On March 22, Europe launched a clinical trial program for the treatment of COVID-19 called Discovery. The trial was performed on 3,200 COVID-19 patients in seven European countries (France, Germany, England, Belgium, Netherlands, Spain and Luxembourg). The Discovery trial aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of four treatments, including one remdesivir.
The administration of President Donald Trump has planned to accelerate the preparation of the vaccine with the goal of having 100 million doses by the end of 2020. However, experts say clinical trials to ensure a really safe vaccine And the effect may take a minimum of 12-18 months.
Since early April, several U.S. Department of Health and Human Services agencies have announced plans to partner with more than 15 pharmaceutical companies as well as with European drug regulatory authorities, in an effort to to find COVID-19 vaccines and medicines.



Remdesivir: The light at the end of the American tunnel?

TTO - Information that the US is about to allow the use of Remdesivir in the treatment of COVID-19 has made the world stock market prosper, oil prices also inched up on April 30. President Trump is urging the marketing approval for this drug.




TUONG NGUYEN
