URL : https://tuoitre.vn/bai-hoc-tu-quoc-gia-co-ti-le-tu-vong-do-covid-19-thap-nhat-chau-au-20200429085821865.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900005

Date : 2020-04-29 10:19:00
Title : Lessons from the country with the lowest COVID-19 mortality rate in Europe
Ariticle : 

TTO - Slovakia, member of the European Union (EU), has the lowest per capita mortality in Europe. Its leaders want to gradually reopen the economy after the blockade order issued by COVID-19.




European leagues are coming back: Happy or worried?



Europe is cautious step by step easing isolation measures



Europe &#39;detects rocks into the river&#39; to reopen




A body temperature display of an employee working at Volkswagen&#39;s factory in the capital Bratislava, Slovakia on April 28 when the factory reopened after closing last month due to COVID-19 - Photo: REUTERS
As COVID-19 continues to kill thousands of people every day across Europe, there is a country that makes a difference by keeping deaths low: Slovakia.
According to Bloomberg News, Slovakia - an inland country with 5.5 million people - closed schools, shops and borders earlier than any other country following a similar step in Italy. Meanwhile, politicians and TV hosts even wear masks before the government is forced to wear them.
And their measures yielded fruit: Johns Hopkins University data as of April 26 shows that six weeks after the first case was recorded, Slovakia had only 18 deaths and was at the bottom of the list. list of deaths per capita in Europe.
According to the update of the page
Worldometers
At 9:50 am on April 29, Slovakia currently recorded a total of 1,384 cases, including 20 deaths and 423 recoveries.
&quot;Speed is of the essence&quot;, says Eva Schernhammer, head of epidemiology at Vienna Medical University in Austria.
&quot;Restricting the epidemic will be ideal when you&#39;re at a stage where you can track the exposure of every new case. When you look back, you&#39;ll see that Slovakia has done the right thing,&quot; he said.
Comparing mortality per million in some European countries such as Spain (Spain), Italy (Italy), France (France), United Kingdom (United Kingdom), Germany (Germany), Hungary, Republic Czech (Czech Republic), Poland (Poland) and Slovakia - Screenshot Bloomberg
Juraj Droba, the leader of Slovakia&#39;s Bratislava region, decided to close the school just two days after the country recorded its first case on March 6-3, a week before the entire country made a similar move. self. Juraj Droba said because he &quot;could see what was happening in Italy&quot;. Bratislava is currently home to more than 10% of the Slovak population.
Jan Mikas, head of the Slovak Public Health Office, also asked the police to prevent a group of skiers from returning to Slovakia and conduct isolation to track. About 60 people were positive for the new strain of corona virus.
The Slovak government is gradually reopening the economy after the blockade - an easier measure to apply in small countries. However, scientists warn that it is still early to say that the war against COVID-19 has ended.
&quot;If the current trend is sustained, we can say that we are one of the best countries to handle pandemics. Virus does not spread in the majority of our population&quot; - Martin Smatana, who stands by top Slovak Health Policy Institute, comment.



Sweden - another &#39;planet&#39; between COVID-19

TTO - While many parts of the world still apply blockade, with unprecedented restrictions affecting businesses and individuals, Sweden goes backward in ways to prevent COVID-19: no Apply blockade order.




PEACE
