URL : https://tuoitre.vn/nhieu-nguoi-o-ha-noi-khong-con-deo-khau-trang-noi-cong-cong-20200501144036499.htm
ID : TUOI2020050100007

Date : 2020-05-01 16:20:00
Title : Many people in Hanoi no longer wear masks in public places
Ariticle : 

TTO - Recorded on 1-5, many Hanoians showed signs of being negligent in combating the COVID-19 epidemic. Regulations of cafes, refreshments and eating places must be separated by 2m between people and almost non-compliance.




Opportunity for traffic to recover from the holidays



Hanoi: Guests at the wharf from morning till afternoon still don&#39;t have cars



Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City glorious red flag celebrate 45 years of reunification




International Labor Day 1-5, Hanoi roads are quite deserted. Photo taken on Hung Vuong street on the morning of 1-5 - Photo: NGOC DIEP
As noted by the reporter, although it is a 1-5 public holiday, many weekend entertainment places of Hanoi people such as West Lake and Hoan Kiem Lake are not as crowded as usual.
West Lake is home to many shops but only some shops are open to customers, the rest are closed. Only the restaurants with beautiful décor still attract a lot of families and friends to meet later
days of social spacing.
Although they still wear masks when going to public places, but when they go to eat and drink with friends on holidays, many people tend to leave masks to sit and talk more freely.
The restaurants are not always guaranteed to keep a distance of 2m between customers, or have a shield between the seating positions according to the instruction of April 7, 28 of the Hanoi People&#39;s Committee.
Here are some pictures
Youth Online
scored on days 1-5:
Hanoi people start to loose place, remove masks when eating out together - Photo: NGOC DIEP
Customers still stand next to each other to buy ice cream in Thuy Ta - Hoan Kiem Lake - Photo: NGOC DIEP
The restaurant next to Hoan Kiem Lake in the morning of 1-5 is quite crowded, the tables are listed at a relatively distance, but most customers put away masks - Photo: NGOC DIEP
A group of women gather and take photos at Hoan Kiem Lake morning 1-5 - Photo: NGOC DIEP
Hoe Nhai Pagoda morning 1-5 only sporadic people to the Buddha - Photo: NGOC DIEP
The Big Church in Nha Chung Street continues to distribute rice to people on May 1. The church has a security force to guide people to keep the correct distance 2m. A villager said they line up about half an hour to get rice - Photo: NGOC DIEP



Hanoi: Non-essential stores opened before 9am will be punished

TTO - After the regulation of non-essential shops opening from 9am, Hanoi City People&#39;s Committee Chairman Nguyen Duc Chung asked the forces to check and strictly punish non-compliant stores and encroachment shops. Pavement.




NGOC DIEP
