URL : https://tuoitre.vn/thu-truong-bo-y-te-viet-nam-chua-tinh-cong-bo-het-dich-2020050208022181.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200009

Date : 2020-05-02 09:10:00
Title : Deputy Minister of Health: Vietnam has not counted to announce the end of the epidemic
Ariticle : 

TTO - Before the epidemic situation in the world is still complicated with the number of new cases still high, the National Steering Committee on epidemic control has not yet taken into account the time of announcing the end of the epidemic.




COVID-19 AM 1-5: When can it be announced in Vietnam?



COVID-19 outbreak 2-5: Vietnam in 0 new cases, Europe the number of deaths exceeds 140,000



Ho Chi Minh City had 5 positive cases related to Buddha bar outbreak




Business and tourism activities have gradually recovered. Photos bathing on Doi Duong beach, Phan Thiet city, Binh Thuan in the afternoon of 30-4 - Photo: DUC TRONG
Talking with Tuoi Tre, Deputy Minister of Health Do Xuan Tuyen - Deputy Director of National Epidemic Steering Committee - said the National Epidemic Steering Committee has not yet taken the time to announce the end of the epidemic because it was not subjective. OK.
Up to the morning of 2-5, there were 16 days when Vietnam did not recognize any new patients spread from the community (from case 268, detected on April 16). According to current regulations, 28 days from the date the last patient from the community is quarantined and no new patient is born, the outbreak may be declared.
In Vietnam, the Prime Minister signed the announcement of the COVID-19 epidemic on April 1, the last known spread of the disease from the community (patient 268) was isolated from 7-4 and is now cured. , as of 1-5 it was 23 days.
However, talking with Tuoi Tre, Mr. Do Xuan Tuyen said that the National Steering Committee for Prevention and Control of National Epidemic has not yet taken into account the time of announcing the end of the epidemic because it could not be subjective, in which the number of new cases reported in the world is still high. still high.
Mr. Tuyen added: &quot;In addition, we are continuing to carry out the protection of citizens, bringing Vietnamese citizens who are stuck abroad or have demand to return to the country. from countries to Vietnam, but there are still experts from corporations, large projects, passport holders working, diplomatic entry work, so there is a risk of new cases arise. &quot;
Deputy Minister of Health Do Xuan Tuyen - Photo: THUY ANH
* Sir, while the number of new cases is increasing worldwide, good anti-epidemic places like Korea still have new cases every day, while Vietnam has more than 15 days not reporting patients spread from the community. . In your opinion, where are the results thanks and sustainable?
- Since the first cases in Wuhan, the Ministry of Health has advised the Government to take strong measures from the beginning. The Government has also taken very drastic measures never applied in Vietnam, such as social gap in the early days of April.
Besides, the participation of all levels, sectors and anti-epidemic awareness of each citizen, from which we have the result today is to achieve the dual goal: both to be able to fight the epidemic and to return to development. economically, especially in the domestic market.
During the past time and the coming period must continue to adhere to the principle of preventing epidemics from coming in and blocking internal epidemics, in particular, those who come from / from Vietnam have to be isolated for 14 days, while the Positive people are sent to hospital for treatment. Cases that have been cured but are now positive are received, isolated, treated like new cases to ensure no spread.
Medical staff in respiratory departments, tropical hospitals, infectious diseases departments, etc., which directly serve high-risk and positive patients are in the monitoring and testing group, a numbers will need to be isolated before returning to the community.
From these steps, the National Epidemic Steering Committee assessed that Vietnam is well controlling the epidemic and it is unlikely that there will be a second epidemic wave as some countries have mentioned.
* Vietnam experienced March and April very difficult, the number of cases increased continuously, many times unable to find the source of disease that confused people. In your opinion, when is the most difficult time?
- The most difficult time is when the first patients appear in March, tracing those who have contact with the patient and then contact with the contact person (F1, F2 ...) is very difficult. . After that, Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam requested the study to apply information technology measures.
Next, some patients from the community could not find the source of infection and then the Prime Minister asked not to continue looking for F0 if F0 was too difficult, but focused on finding those who have contact with patients to delineate. isolated area. These measures have been well implemented and effective.
* As you said, Vietnam is controlling the epidemic quite well and the risk of the 2nd wave is unlikely to occur. The days after the gap, people have opened shops, doing business, traveling back. Has all return activity been secured?
- Vietnam is doing very well and the return has been evaluated by the Government as appropriate and allowed, but each person, each production and business establishment still prevents the epidemic within its scope by complying with measures under the guidance of the Ministry of Health such as wearing a mask, keeping a minimum distance of 1m when contacting, limiting crowded crowds ...
Even if students return to the school the next few days, the school is required to follow the anti-epidemic measures.
Many people no longer wear masks in public places
As noted on 1-5, many people in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City showed signs of neglect with the COVID-19 epidemic. Regulations of cafes, refreshments and eating places must be separated by 2m between people and almost non-compliance.
In Hanoi, although wearing a mask when going out in public, when going out to eat with friends on holidays, many people tend to leave the mask to sit and talk more comfortably. The shops are not always able to keep a distance of 2m between customers or have a shield between the seating positions according to the instruction of April 28, 28, of Hanoi People&#39;s Committee.
In Ho Chi Minh City, noted on the morning of 1-5 in Tao Dan Park (District 1), some people who come here to exercise or take a walk also do not wear masks. Some cafes, pubs ... many people do not wear masks. (
ND - KB)



COVID-19 AM 1-5: When can it be announced in Vietnam?

TTO - According to current regulations, 28 days after the patient is infected in an isolated community, no longer able to spread will be able to declare the end of the epidemic. It has been 23 days now.




LAN UK implemented
