URL : https://tuoitre.vn/hau-covid-19-nhung-thay-doi-chung-ta-chua-nhan-ra-20200429110704222.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900007

Date : 2020-04-29 14:00:00
Title : Post COVID-19: changes we haven&#39;t realized yet
Ariticle : 

After nearly a month of social separation, we had to change to adapt to a new lifestyle.


Regular hand washing is now a habit
As the pandemic passed, 96 million Vietnamese people have begun to realize a lot of changes in behavior, habits and many activities in every corner of their lives after the past 2 months. A completely different community compared to the end of 2019.
New working environment
Coming back to the office after a long time at home will bring something new. Just over half a year ago, we thought we could still go to work when we had a mild fever. Now, just see a sign of a cold, immediately you will advise colleagues to stay sick and see a doctor.
In addition, we see people often wearing masks at work, washing their hands with antiseptic solution.
In the past, we often started a meeting with handshakes, but this habit might be replaced by elbows or kicks in the future.
Touching a keyboard or screen, or a colleague&#39;s personal item, will also be limited. All will become &quot;underground rules&quot; in the working environment.
Food and drink shops are open, but mostly delivery
Three weeks of home isolation has given people the habit of cooking at home or ordering food via apps instead of going to restaurants, places where there are potential health risks.
Restaurants, if they want customers to feel secure when coming to their store, they will have to rearrange the dining table to maintain a safe distance of at least 2 meters. The place still can only serve up to 20-30 guests because they still need to follow instructions from the government.
Familiar eating utensils such as chopsticks, spoons, forks, knives in street vendors, in alleys will need to be cleaned or protective packaging attached to avoid contact by many people.
The street food culture, considered a unique and interesting culture of Asia, now also makes us consider more before deciding to order.
Gym - safe place to go at the moment
&quot;Although we regularly practice following video and livestream instructions, we really miss the practice room and our friends. We are like a family.&quot; Mr. Phuong Binh (Go Vap) shared.
The gym will have to change to adapt
When the government calls for people to increase resistance to disease, the gym is the ideal place to help people exercise. It is expected that the gym will begin operating again this week, while applying safety measures.
Mr. Huy Phan, Vice President of California Fitness &amp; Yoga (California), one of the leading sports brands in Vietnam, said: &quot;We always strictly follow the instructions of the government and the provincial People&#39;s Committees. into a venue where the company&#39;s clubs on COVID-19 prevention measures are in the new situation.
In addition, the company also cooperates with functional agencies to develop a set of criteria for evaluating safety activities in the Fitness industry in order to motivate people to actively practice to strengthen their immune systems. , prevent the spread of future diseases &quot;.
California has set strict standards and safeguards such as requiring every person to wear a mask when checking in and out of the club to check body temperature, increase hygiene staff, equip hand sanitizer space separators to keep a safe distance, in addition, the gym will arrange breaks between classes to clean, disinfect equipment ...
In addition, employees and members need to fill out a medical form before returning to work and practice the club.
Clubs will also limit the number of membership institutes to 30% of capacity to ensure a safe distance between members.
&quot;We are very careful with this issue,&quot; Huy added. &quot;I believe the measures that California is implementing at the present time are highly effective. These are practical measures in accordance with government regulations as well as other advanced countries are proposing. or apply. &quot;
&quot;Before the interval, I was very comfortable going to the California gym. But with additional measures being applied, I felt really safe.&quot; Ms. Hoang Ngoc (District 2) shared.
A practice class will ensure a safe distance for members
The way of life of the Vietnamese community now will not be the same as before the COVID-19 period. We are forced to accept and adapt to new laws to continue to exist and gradually restore life.
Always protect the health of yourself and the community by following epidemic prevention recommendations and maintaining regular hand washing, wearing masks and avoiding crowds of people to fight the disease together.



PQ
