URL : https://tuoitre.vn/lan-dau-tien-benh-vien-cho-ray-thuc-hien-ca-dai-phau-3-trong-1-20200505175500939.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500017

Date : 2020-05-05 18:07:00
Title : The first time Cho Ray Hospital performed a &#39;3 in 1&#39; major operation
Ariticle : 

TTO - It takes only 4 hours, Cho Ray Hospital&#39;s doctors successfully perform the &quot;3 in 1&quot; major surgery, including surgery to remove the pancreas, entire stomach and transverse section of the colon for a patient with cancer.




The 15-hour major surgery saved the lives of women with brain tumors



New blood tests can detect more than 50 types of cancer



The benefactors hide their faces at Cho Ray Hospital




Doctors of Cho Ray Hospital perform a &quot;3 in 1&quot; major surgery, including surgery to remove the pancreas, entire stomach and transectal section for patients with cancer - Photo: Cho Hospital Farming provided
On May 5, Doctor Lam Viet Trung - Head of Gastroenterology Department (Cho Ray Hospital) - said that he had just cooperated with Hepatobiliary and Hepatobiliary surgery to successfully perform surgery for BVR patients (75 years old, living in Tien Giang). have stomach cancer, invasive pancreas, duodenum and transverse colon.
Dr. Trung said that during some initial stages of treatment, the tumor was determined by the doctors to meet the treatment roadmap and has not spread far, so the gastroenterology department coordinated with the surgery of the liver. The pancreas performed a major &quot;3 in 1&quot; operation.
Specifically,
Doctors combined at the same time included Whipple surgery (pancreatic massectomy), total gastric bypass surgery and transverse colon segment surgery.
In addition to the first major surgery, another difficulty is the relatively elderly patients (75 years old), limited health, and cancer carrying many invasive organs.
However, after 4 hours, the major surgery ended successfully and now the health is stable.
According to Dr. Trung, usually with the pathology of the patient will undergo 3 separate surgeries, which can last from 10 to 13 hours.
The patient recovered well after a major surgery - Photo: Cho Ray Hospital provided
&quot;This is a very special case because it is the first time Cho Ray Hospital has performed such a large&quot; 3 in 1 &quot;case. Successful surgery has contributed to improving the quality of life for patients. at the same time bring a lot of hope for cancer patients, &quot;said Dr. Lam Viet Trung.



Commend and reward Cho Ray Hospital and Tropical Diseases successfully treating COVID-19 infected patients

TTO - In the afternoon of 21-2, the People&#39;s Committee of Ho Chi Minh City gave extraordinary rewards to two units, namely Cho Ray Hospital and Tropical Diseases Hospital, which successfully treated COVID-19 cases.




HOANG LOC
