URL : https://tuoitre.vn/loan-gia-mua-may-xet-nghiem-covid-19-thieu-vai-tro-giam-sat-cua-nganh-y-te-20200504075512293.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400002

Date : 2020-05-04 08:10:00
Title : COVID-19 purchase price fluctuation: Lack of supervision role of the health sector?
Ariticle : 

TTO - The price hike in buying realtime PCR machines for COVID-19 testing in many localities was Dr. Nguyen Viet Hung - former head of Bidding Management Department (now Bidding Management Department), Ministry of Planning and Investment - Management solve and point out the cause.




The company sells testing machines to Quang Nam from 7.2 billion to 4.8 billion



COVID-19 testing machine price fluctuations: Many bidding packages have been &quot;unexpectedly&quot; favored



COVID-19 test device purchase: Many places say &#39;try it, not buy it&#39;




CDC Quang Ninh testing staff transfers the COVID-19 testing technique to a number of hospitals in the province - Photo: CDC Quang Ninh
Mr. Hung said: &quot;Unattended contractor designation creates a closed circle, leading to the possibility of contractors listing COVID-19 testing machine prices, then being abetted, causing billions of taxpayers&#39; tax losses. &quot;.
“Buying machines with tax money of the people must have the State&#39;s hand in price control, have to hire an independent valuation consultant to check the selling price of equipment in the world and in the country, but cannot let go. liquid management.
Dr. Nguyen Viet Hung
There are holes
* In your opinion, what are the main causes leading to the situation that each locality buys COVID-19 test equipment for a recent time? Is this too ridiculous?
- In order to shorten the time for procurement, quick supply of COVID-19 testing machines for local anti-epidemic work, according to the Bidding Law, localities are entitled to appoint contractors to purchase equipment and chemicals. , medical supplies. But the fact that each locality appointed a contractor to buy a Realtime PCR device for testing COVID-19 at a price, many times higher than the import price of about VND 2-3 billion / unit, was not specified by the state management agency of the health sector. price-oriented for localities to implement.
Because of the lack of a supervisory and managerial role by the Ministry of Health, there is no price ground for procurement of COVID-19 testing machines. Because businesses that supply COVID-19 test machines have different sources of equipment imports, they will offer different testing machine prices.
Medical equipment is a specialized item, but the health sector management agency does not perform the role of managing the market of medical equipment, leading to how much businesses want to sell. For profit, businesses that import one but sell 2-3 times are also not supervised to prevent the negative. The limitation of the appointment of a contractor in the procurement of public assets is that there is only one seller and one buyer so it is easy to arise negative, profiteering and corruption.
* Determining the exact purchase price of Realtime PCR machine for testing COVID-19 before making the purchase estimate is not really too difficult compared to the capacity of the local health department?
- Determining the import price of Realtime PCR machine for testing COVID-19 on the market is not difficult, but the health sector management agency did not guide in time so the local health department when buying the machine has no basis to confront. mat. Department of Health of localities can completely refer to the purchase price from the manufacturer before submitting to the provincial leaders to sign for approval of the bidder appointed bid. But some places did not do.
The question was when the Hanoi City Center for Disease Control (CDC Hanoi) was arrested, was the contractor selling a few billion dong difference, there must be a part of some civil servants involved too? process of buying equipment?
Dr. Nguyen Viet Hung - Former Director of Bidding Management Department
* Are there still gaps leading to tax losses of the people when many localities can circumvent regulations when appointing contractors, then buying equipment?
- According to the provisions of the Bidding Law, the local health department will choose the method of obtaining quotes from 3 enterprises supplying COVID-19 testing machines, then select the enterprise with the lowest equipment price to prepare a proposal. machine purchase cost (actually many times higher than the market price), then the contractor will be appointed lower than the estimate made to buy the testing machine.
Actual cost estimates for COVID-19 testing machines have been approved by localities in recent years, so it needs to be clarified if it does not make much sense when the parties concerned deliberately circumvent the law to profiteering. Medical equipment suppliers may have worked together to raise the selling price of products right from the price quote stage to health departments. Therefore, the method of using 3 quotation tables of 3 different contractors to determine the purchase price of testing machines will not be accurate.
Because no one manages and supervises the process of appointing bidders to buy COVID-19 testing machines, the locals&#39; determination of the purchase price of testing machines is not detected. Only when there was a complaint that CDC Hanoi had fraudulent in bidding, the investigating agency of the Ministry of Public Security prosecuted the case, the local authorities startled to adjust the price of COVID-19 testing machine to avoid responsibility. duty.
In terms of formality, the localities that appointed contractors to buy COVID-19 testing machines were not wrong in the past time, they indicated that the price of the testing machine purchase was not higher than the bidding package price, but the inside might be negative when the price bidding packages are made much higher than market prices and cause damage to the State.
Should play a role
Ministry of Health
* What do we need to do to prevent similar negatives in the field of medical equipment procurement?
12-16
trillion
It is the money to buy medical equipment and implement some special regimes when the epidemic control is in the total increase of VND 52,000 billion spent by the Government in response to the COVID-19 epidemic.
- When localities are appointed to bid for COVID-19 testing equipment, the Ministry of Health can issue a notice that the purchase price of Realtime PCR machine does not exceed VND 3 billion. Phuong could not approve the project to buy up to VND 7 billion. In fact, the process of buying COVID-19 testing machines in the past time has no basis for comparing the prices, so the risk of corruption and negative in contractor appointment is very large.
Leaders of provinces and cities of Hanoi, Thai Binh, Quang Ninh, Quang Nam ... approved the bidding plan, the purchase price of COVID-19 testing machine according to the report submitted by the Department of Health. Department of Health again based on the quotation of 3 enterprises specializing in providing Realtime PCR test equipment to submit to the provincial leaders for approval of purchase price.
About very valid form. It can be seen that the price of COVID-19 testing machine approved by the provinces depends entirely on the quotes of the contractors themselves. So for the profit of contractors deliberately shaking hands to raise prices is inevitable. This is a vicious circle that leads to the risk of taxpayers losing money.
If the investor (local health department) is impartial, before bidding for the purchase of COVID-19, they must refer to the previous bidding results. There were a few localities such as Quang Binh, Quang Tri bought testing machines only cost about 1.6 billion, while many provinces approved the purchase price of up to 7 billion, very unreasonable.
* The bidding law stipulates the centralized procurement of medical equipment, according to him, why haven&#39;t we done it?
- Bidding focused on theory very well, but easy said difficult. Ho Chi Minh City in 2018 had to cancel bidding to focus on buying medical supplies because it could not be done. The special feature of the health sector is the delay in buying equipment and supplies for a month so patients cannot wait. On the other hand, the centralized bidding will eliminate the opportunities of small domestic contractors, only create conditions for a few large contractors so it does not create a level playing field.
Representatives of the Department of medical equipment and facilities, the Ministry of Health:
&quot;Leaders of provincial People&#39;s Committee decided to buy the device&quot;
Purchase of COVID-19 testing machines under the deciding authority of provincial and city People&#39;s Committees; The guidance of the Ministry of Health is professional guidance, which machine to use, which chemicals, materials to implement disease prevention. Moreover, in public procurement, the Law on Bidding is clearly defined, the ministry cannot intervene.
The Ministry of Health has already issued warnings to localities. Units violating the provisions of the bidding law shall take self-responsibility. Currently, the Ministry of Planning and Investment has a website dedicated to the public posting of all bidding information and bidding results on it, if localities need to can refer to the above price. there. The anti-epidemic machine is also a PCR machine, but nothing special.



From the COVID-19 purchase price hike: The public service ethics is degraded!

TTO - In the context of the outbreak, there was a luxuriant affair with the purchase of a high-performance Realtime PCR machine for COVID-19 testing and there were officials prosecuted, indicating that it was necessary to &quot;incinerate&quot; immediately at the administrative levels. locally.




BAO NGOC implemented
