URL : https://tuoitre.vn/benh-nhan-covid-19-duong-tinh-sau-khi-ra-vien-cach-ly-dieu-tri-nhu-ca-moi-2020042820522781.htm
ID : TUOI2020042900001

Date : 2020-04-28 21:34:00
Title : COVID-19-positive patient after discharge: isolated, treated as a new case
Ariticle : 

TTO - For patients who are eligible for discharge but are positive again, the health facilities encourage patients to continue isolation in health facilities to monitor health for the next 14 days.




Two COVID-19 patients in Ho Chi Minh City and one in Phu Tho were positive after discharge



Clarify the cause of COVID-19-positive patients again



Ho Chi Minh City detected a patient who recovered COVID-19 but was positive again




Two COVID-19-infected patients were treated at Cu Chi field hospital on the day of discharge - Photo: Hospital provided
Mr. Nguyen Truong Son - Deputy Minister of Health, Deputy Head of the National Steering Committee for COVID-19 Prevention and Control - has just issued a document instructing Health Departments, Hospitals ... on monitoring and testing of coronavirus for COVID-19 patients after being discharged from the hospital.
Accordingly, in the past time in the world and in Vietnam there are some cases of COVID-19 patients after discharge, while in isolation at the hospital or at home, the test results are positive again.
There may be several causes for this condition, such as the virus invading and developing in many organs and depending on the individual patient, so the density of viruses in different organs at the same time, there are patients Although at the site of the pharyngeal virus, but in other organs such as the lungs, the gastrointestinal tract may exist.
Or it is possible that the RT-PCR assay technique identifies the RNA of a virus in a patient sample even though there is no live virus but there is still a genetic material of the virus (virus body) that results in a positive test result.
It may be related to the ability, sensitivity and specificity of the current RT-PCR assay technique for corona virus, in addition to the quality of the sample, the location of the collection may also affect the test results. .
The Ministry of Health requires hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients in need
perform isolation treatment for people who test positive again after discharge as a new case of COVID-19.
For patients who have been discharged from the hospital, the patients are encouraged to continue isolation in health facilities for health monitoring for the next 14 days.
In case the patient does not want to stay at the medical facility, the preventive medicine center or the local disease control center, if eligible, may be allowed to be isolated at home. at the health facility.
During this isolation period, patients are retested at least twice at the end of the first and second week by RT-PCR.
The Ministry of Health recommends that health facilities, besides testing by RT-PCR test, should test for antibody (serological method) when they are cured and after their isolation at the medical establishment. , at home or in residence to assess the protective immune response of COVID-19 infected people.



Ho Chi Minh City added a positive case with SARS-CoV-2 after discharge

TTO - On the evening of April 28, information from the Steering Committee for COVID-19 epidemic prevention in Ho Chi Minh City said that the city currently has a total of 4 cases of COVID-19 being continued treatment, of which 3 cases were positive again.




THUY DUONG
