URL : https://tuoitre.vn/ong-trump-du-bao-dieu-khung-khiep-100-000-nguoi-chet-vi-covid-19-o-my-20200504225349033.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500004

Date : 2020-05-05 05:35:00
Title : Mr. Trump predicted the terrible thing: 100,000 people died of COVID-19 in the United States
Ariticle : 

A few weeks ago, US President Donald Trump predicted that the number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the US could reach 60,000 - 70,000. But on 4-5 (Vietnam time), Mr. Trump said this number could reach 100,000.




Mr. Trump went to Camp David to discuss economic rescue plans after 30 days of &#39;imprisonment&#39; in the White House



The mysterious man donated $ 1 million to all employees of an American hospital



COVID-19 epidemic 4-5: The US has more than 67,000 deaths, Vietnam more cases cured




A protester holds a mask that reads &quot;Exploit me and then expels me&quot; during a protest on the International Labor Day in New York City on May 1 - Photo: REUTERS
This shows that the US may still face many dark days.
&quot;We will lose from 75,000, 80,000 to 100,000 people. It is a terrible thing. We should not have lost even one person in this pandemic,&quot; Mr. Trump said in a program aired on Radio. Fox News.
Be confident of having the vaccine soon
However, the US leader thinks that the number of deaths could be even worse if his administration did not act quickly.
&quot;If we do not act, the minimum number of deaths will reach 1.2 million, 1.4 million, 1.5 million. The number could be even higher, more than 2.2 million&quot; - President Trump Talk about a more horrifying scenario.
Number of deaths due
COVID-19 in the USA
As of April 4-5 was more than 68,000, the highest in the world. According to the New York Times, as of April 2-4, more than 1,000 deaths are reported each day in the United States.
Despite predicting a rising death toll, President Trump once again indicated he wanted to lift the order to keep people indoors and other restrictive measures - which have dealt a blow to the US economy and More than 30 million workers lost their jobs.
&quot;At some point, we have to open the country. Everyone will be safe and we will learn many things. We cannot keep closing the country,&quot; said the White House boss.
Trump reaffirmed that the virus would eventually disappear and was &quot;very confident&quot; that the US would have a COVID-19 vaccine by the end of this year. This timeline is much earlier than the assessment of &quot;1 year to 18 months&quot; of US health experts. But Mr. Trump said: &quot;I think we will have the vaccine much sooner rather than later.&quot;
Who is at fault?
It is a question that takes more time to find a clear answer and maybe even ... there is no valid answer. The war between the US and China over the origin of the new strain of corona virus has been enough to show how complicated the problem of identifying faults is.
President Trump told Fox News on Wednesday that he personally thinks China has made a &quot;terrible mistake&quot;, unwilling to admit and try to cover it up. The Associated Press reported a 4-page report by the US Department of Homeland Security earlier this month that China had &quot;deliberately concealed the severity&quot; of COVID-19, in part to store medical supplies. necessary to deal with pandemics.
How China has made the &quot;mistake&quot; according to Trump&#39;s statement is currently unknown and Beijing will not remain seated by the allegations from Washington. But to discuss the mistake of fighting COVID-19 in the United States, it seems to be getting clearer. Soaring statistics in the US have shown that the US actually has a problem in fighting epidemics.
Answering the question &quot;Why didn&#39;t you take action earlier to prepare for COVID-19?&quot; by Fox News, President Trump said until the day
On January 23, US intelligence informed him of the new strain of corona virus, and advisers said it was &quot;not a big deal&quot;.
&quot;It was a short talk and that day was the day
23-1. Shortly thereafter, I &quot;closed&quot; the United States to China. There were 21 people in the room and I was the only one who wanted to close the door, &quot;he said. He mentioned his decision on January 30 to prevent entry to most foreigners from
China.
The office of the US National Intelligence Director said the time given by Mr. Trump was accurate and that at that time, Mr. Trump was also told that the virus did not seem too deadly. So is Mr. Trump ordering early immigration restriction &quot;public&quot; or not? That is unknown. He personally said the decision did not stem from intelligence on January 23.
Missing the golden time against epidemics?
However, it is worth noting that Mr. Trump repeatedly lowered the threat of new strain of corona virus in January, February and March. According to CNN, Mr. Trump did not explain this.
The New York Times cited a number of public health advisers saying that travel restrictions applied helped slow the spread of COVID-19 to the United States, but the Trump administration did not spend the time. time to prepare for confrontation with COVID-19, such as in increasing testing and producing more medical devices.



Mr. Trump: The US will have a vaccine against COVID-19 later this year

US health experts say it could take anywhere from one year to 18 months to successfully produce the vaccine and put it into use, but President Trump is confident the United States can do it by the end of this year.




TOLD HIM
