URL : https://tuoitre.vn/thuoc-remdesivir-anh-sang-cuoi-duong-ham-cua-my-20200430143857627.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000010

Date : 2020-04-30 15:02:00
Title : Remdesivir: The light at the end of the American tunnel?
Ariticle : 

TTO - Information that the US is about to allow the use of Remdesivir in the treatment of COVID-19 has made the world stock market prosper, oil prices also inched up on April 30. President Trump is urging the marketing approval for this drug.




The United States recommends not taking anti-malarial drugs for the treatment of COVID-19



WHO launched a search for vaccines and medicines to treat COVID-19, the US said it was not participating



Japan discovered substance that can be used to make COVID-19 remedy




This small bottle of Remdesivir is receiving high expectations in the US - Photo: REUTERS
Reuters reported on April 29, citing clinical trials of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), saying that patients with COVID-19 who received Remdesivir recovered 30% faster than those with diseases. The patient was treated with placebo (placebo).
The trial was conducted in 68 locations in the US, Europe and Asia with 1,063 patients participating. Doctors and patients who participated in the trial were not told if they were in the Remdesivir or placebo group to eliminate bias.
The recovery time of patients treated with Remdesivir averaged 11 days while patients taking placebo were 15 days, the head of NIAID - Dr. Anthony Fauci said.
&quot;Although the ratio is only 30%, not 100%, this is a very important evidence, enough to prove that this drug can prevent the virus,&quot; Mr. Fauci argued.
Results also showed that those taking Remdesivir had a lower risk of death. The mortality rate was 8% for the Remdesivir group compared to 11.6% for the placebo group.
US President Donald Trump immediately praised the test results and asked the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to approve the release of Remdesivir &quot;as soon as possible.&quot;
&quot;I want to see the permit issued quickly, especially with things that have shown efficacy in treatment,&quot; Mr. Trump directed at a meeting at the White House.
There is no FDA approval for any medicine used to treat COVID-19. However, according to CNN, under pressure from Mr. Trump, the agency may issue a special license, allowing the widespread use of Remdesivir because of an emergency situation before it is officially licensed.
Technicians from Gilead Sciences examine newly-manufactured Remdesivir batches in California - Photo: REUTERS
CEO of pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences, the manufacturer of Remdesivir, said the company would contribute at least 1.5 million doses of Remdesivir and will sell the product &quot;at an affordable price&quot; afterwards. This number is enough to treat about 140,000 COVID-19 patients.
Reuters noted that Remdesivir&#39;s proven effectiveness of treatment is considered the light at the end of the tunnel for the United States.
&quot;Everyone understands that medicines are different from vaccines but that is a turning point that will change the game and make people feel more excited and confident. This is a necessary condition for us to recover activities such as before COVID-19, &quot;argued Tapas Strickland of the National Bank of Australia.
This is why Trump pressured the FDA to quickly license Remdesivir, an American product originally created to treat Ebola patients (but without success).
All major Wall Street and European indexes gained at least 2% while Asian stocks continued to extend the bright day. WTI crude oil also rose for the second day in a row thanks to news of Remdesivir.



Oxford University successfully tested the corona vaccine in monkeys

TTO - In the global race to find a vaccine against COVID-19, Oxford University scientists have just made a breakthrough with the success of testing vaccines on monkeys very close to humans.




BAO DUY
