URL : https://tuoitre.vn/thiet-bi-y-te-140-ti-mua-xong-khong-xai-trum-men-hu-hong-20200504230834038.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500006

Date : 2020-05-05 08:00:00
Title : 140 billion medical equipment was purchased without spending, &#39;blanket cover&#39;, damaged ...
Ariticle : 

TTO - Among 99 medical devices worth 140 billion VND, there are devices purchased for 1 year but not enough manpower to use, even not used in 3 years due to lack of demand.




COVID-19 purchase price fluctuation: Lack of supervision role of the health sector?



From the COVID-19 purchase price hike: The public service ethics is degraded!



The company sells testing machines to Quang Nam from 7.2 billion to 4.8 billion




Health worker working with corona virus testing machine - Photo: NATIONAL NAM
Talking to Tuoi Tre on 4-5 days, the Director of the Department of Medical Equipment and Health Works, Ministry of Health, Nguyen Minh Tuan, said that the Ministry of Health had asked the units to report the winning bid price of medical equipment and supplies. to be public on the ministry&#39;s website from 2019.
&quot;Here, localities must send notices about the purchased equipment, supplies, prices, configurations / categories after bidding, so there is data for other units to compare and use as a basis for marking.&quot; bid &quot;- Mr. Nguyen Minh Tuan said.
This requirement can help the price of procurement of medical supplies and equipment be publicized, reduce &quot;blindness&quot; and create a sensation in the public opinion.
140 billion
Through a survey of medical equipment in eight provinces and cities, the Ministry of Health said there were 99 broken devices at the time of checking, inefficient use or being repaired. Notably, there are equipment purchased for 1 year but not enough manpower to use, the hospital is renovating, no room for equipment, not even used for 3 years due to lack of demand.
Or there are devices such as high-frequency X-ray machines, digital dental X-rays, arthroscopes with equipment, 5-parameter patient monitoring monitors, photo printers used to connect to the endoscope. .. are imported from England, USA, Japan, rarely used or not used due to less demand. The problem is that there is little or no demand but the equipment is still bought and to &quot;cover up&quot;.
The total number of medical equipment according to this survey shows that there are 99 devices, the total procurement cost (from budget, ODA or projects) is over VND 140 billion.
At the time of responding to the audit, the Ministry of Health also said that it had reorganized investment in many affiliated units, avoiding the situation of buying but not using or using less, setting the price plan to ensure sufficient facilities. The investment also needs to be determined on the basis of demand, if the unit cannot be used, it must be immediately transferred to other units to avoid the situation of receiving unused equipment.
However, after the results of this audit, the problem of medical equipment continued to &quot;fizzle&quot;, especially after the COVID-19 epidemic, showing that the price of equipment does not have a mechanism to control, leading to each province. , hospital price difference ...
Specifically, with Cobas 4800 equipment, Thai Binh province purchased 6.45 billion (calculated before the negotiation), Ninh Binh bought 5.9 billion; same Qiagen but Quang Ninh bought 8.4 billion, Hanoi bought 7 billion, Quang Nam bought 7.2 billion ...
It is expected that today 5-5 Ministry of Health has written requests for localities to report the winning bid for equipment to aggregate into general data, public, with a basis for localities to compare when shopping.
Why is the price difference?
In the written response to the audit agency&#39;s information about the management and procurement of medical equipment and supplies at 15 units, the Ministry of Health said many auditing cases cited the same type of goods but the price. Supplies difference too far from each other.
For example, Viet Duc Hospital buys 945 butterfly wings / piece, Cho Ray Hospital buys up to 7,350 VND / unit, that is due to different specifications. &quot;The needles bought by Viet Duc Hospital are single-use needles that are used only for injection and infusion; the Cho Ray type is purchased with silicon-coated chromium needles to limit vascular lesions, multiple use for infusion over many days&quot; - Ministry of Health explained.
Similarly, the Ministry of Health said that Bach Mai Hospital bought a serum transmission line for VND 2,940 / wire, which is a normal wire, usually from China; Viet Duc Hospital buys VND 18,000 / cord which is a smart infusion line, only for organ transplant patients, there are many differences with normal wires.
Chemicals have a price difference of 5.8 times, the Ministry of Health also said that due to different product quality.



Quang Nam inspected the purchase of testing machines with over VND 7.2 billion

TTO - Inspector of Quang Nam province has decided to inspect the implementation of the procurement package for the automated testing system for more than 7.2 billion VND.




LAN ANH
