URL : https://tuoitre.vn/phat-hien-khang-the-ngan-lay-nhiem-covid-19-20200505084923056.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500007

Date : 2020-05-05 09:41:00
Title : Detects antibodies that prevent COVID-19 infection
Ariticle : 

Scientists have identified a monoclonal antibody in the laboratory that could prevent COVID-19 from infecting cells. They hope to use it to create treatments to prevent pandemics.




China &#39;did evil&#39; when India demanded the return of corona virus antibody test kits



Countries test antibodies in the blood for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients



Detecting many antibodies prevents corona virus from entering human cells




Since the COVID-19 pandemic occurred in late 2019, more than 3.6 million people have been infected, more than 1 million people have recovered and more than 251,000 people have died - Photo: GETTY
The research results are published in the journal by the Dutch scientists
Nature
4-5 days. Accordingly, an antibody called 47D11 can bind to the mutant protein that the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) uses to invade the body and stop it in a way that neutralizes pathogens.
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, world scientists have entered the race to research and manufacture vaccines. Because there is no vaccine or specific treatment for the disease, the team from the Netherlands has investigated whether monoclonal antibody (mAb) antibodies can help treat patients with COVID-19. .
Monoclonal antibodies are a laboratory-made protein that binds to a specific substance in the body. These antibodies mimic the way the immune system responds to threats and are used to treat certain types of cancer.
To conduct the study, the scientists injected mice with antibodies similar to those in the mutant protein that the viruses that cause SARS, MERS and SARS-CoV-2 use cell invasion. As a result, these mice made 51 antibodies capable of neutralizing the spike protein.
The team continued to investigate whether the antibodies neutralized SARS-CoV (the virus that caused SARS in 2003) and SARS-CoV-2 in laboratory samples. see 47D11 antibody.
Associate Professor Berend-Jan Bosch (Utrecht University, The Netherlands) said the previous work-based study of antibodies can kill SARS-CoV.
&quot;This finding provides a solid foundation for further research to develop the method,&quot; said study co-author and cell biology professor Frank Grosveld at Erasmus Medical Center (Rotterdam, Netherlands). COVID-19 treatment.
When the research results were published, the world scientists were all excited. While there are certain limitations (such as preventing infection entirely based on cell culture in laboratories and in animals that have not been implemented in humans), all Hopefully on this new discovery and
support the further development
antibody 47D11
as potential COVID-19 treatments.
According to Babak Javid, a professor at Tsinghua Medical University (China) and a consultant on infectious diseases at Cambridge University Hospital in the UK, this is an interesting finding, because one of the trials is being The scientific community is very interested in the COVID-19 treatment method with plasma.
However, the use of plasma is difficult to apply widely and is not safe because of blood research. Therefore, scientists are very interested in identifying individual antibodies that can neutralize the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Monoclonal antibodies do not pose the same safety concerns as when using blood, so they can be made in the lab instead of being refined from everyone&#39;s blood.



Belgium develops antibodies capable of destroying corona

VIO-VIB-UGent biotechnology center has detected an antibody capable of neutralizing corona virus, according to vib.be website on 16-3.




KA KA (According to Nature)
