URL : https://tuoitre.vn/gia-nhu-tran-chien-nay-da-ket-thuc-that-su-2020043021490131.htm
ID : TUOI2020050100004

Date : 2020-05-01 12:36:00
Title : If only this &#39;battle&#39; was truly over
Ariticle : 

TTO - &#39;When I was ordered to return, my feelings were hard to describe. If only the epidemic around the world had subsided, if only all had gone home, this battle would be truly over, then it would be more fun for me to step back &#39;, said Dr. Dong Phu Khiem.




They inspired the people to overcome the pandemic



Impressive Vietnam: the faces of the anti-epidemic frontline



Vietnam owns both methods of testing, many countries order




Doctor Dong Phu Khiem - Photo: VIET DUNG
Emergency stopped circulation is the emergency emergency medical. If the circulation stops too long, the heart does not beat again, and there is a lack of oxygen, even after the emergency, the condition of the patient will be complicated, brain damage will not recover, the patient may have to live in a plant. But fortunately we have emergency care, patients have recovered both perception and awareness, which is the result of the process of early disease monitoring and detection.
Doctor Khiem talked about the emergency of patients 19.
The conversation took place on the first day Dr. Dong Phu Khiem returned to the familiar environment, after a day off from home. It is a place of almost silence, only the hum of breathing machines, the rushing footsteps of the doctors, but where life is revived.
Dr. Khiem is the deputy head of the intensive care unit at the Central Hospital for Tropical Diseases. Starting on March 15, when the first severe COVID-19 patient turned up, Dr. Dong Phu Khiem and his colleagues and colleagues started to &quot;camp&quot; at the hospital. It was his longest time away from home
10 years ago.
We did more than 100% effort
* Which time in the last 2 months is the most difficult time for the doctors to recover positively, when you have up to 5 very serious patients (out of 6 very serious patients in Vietnam, the other one Is the British pilot being treated at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Ho Chi Minh City)?
- Doctor Dong Phu Khiem:
The epidemic started in Vietnam from late January to early February but at that time, luckily, all patients were mild. The situation changed rapidly when at the second stage of the epidemic, that is, when patients were 17, and from there began to have severe cases. When the emergency department treated the patient initially, the patient did not respond to oxygen and was transferred to the intensive care unit.
The day I was transferred to COVID-19 was on Sunday 15-3, although the previous Saturday I was on duty 24 hours in the hospital for other seriously ill patients. I just got home to prepare some clothes, then went to the hospital and stayed there for a while
half months
Although we have done a lot of research on the disease, about the management and foundation preparation, the most concern is that the number of patients increases rapidly, rushing in, not having enough human resources and equipment for treatment. So we have a plan for when severe cases on how to treat, who in the inner ring close to the patient, who runs outside ...
But there are still very difficult moments. The initial difficulty was the need to wear full-time protective clothing to reach the patient. Although familiar with this type of clothing, the first phase doctors still find it very mysterious. Wearing protective gear is very tight and hot, wearing for many hours is very uncomfortable, but this is a requirement to comply, must adapt in working conditions with that outfit. And every single second of contact with the patient obeys the rules to avoid transmission.
We always understand what people are expecting from frontline doctors. If a patient dies, the psychology will be much worse. Therefore, everyone must try to do more than 100% of their strength, apart from caring, monitoring and treating patients. The three doctors took turns so normally they could take a short break to recover.
But the rest of the hours is the time to go online to see the problems that patients have encountered, similar cases in other countries have been cured. Every little detail has to be learned to keep from being too impatient, but step by step to find the safest ways for the patient, because the patient needs time to recover and we have to keep the patient alive to wait for the time. space there.
The time of rest is therefore around the patient or reading materials and reporting, summarizing the situation for consultation because the teachers and the Ministry of Health are very interested. That&#39;s the period of getting to know the patient, once you get used to it, the pressure is on the number of severe patients
increase.
The patient recovered from COVID-19 thanking the doctors before leaving the National Hospital of Tropical Diseases on April 7 - Photo: VIET DUNG
* Which patient does the doctor feel the heaviest, sees the most complicated developments?
- The first patient is an English patient. When we entered our site on the 12th day after the onset of illness, the situation was very bad, the professional committee monitored before the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit and was planning to use ECMO (equipment). artificial heart) for patients, but we should &quot;in the match&quot; have time to see details, see how each situation is best for the patient.
Direct doctors tried to turn around, treat breathing machine, treat as much as possible until the patient improved without using ECMO. At that time all were very happy, reporting to the council
professional right away.
The heaviest patient to date is still on mechanical ventilation, patient 19 - the patient&#39;s intestines 17. On the third day when the patient was admitted to the hospital, ventilated, that night the patient&#39;s condition was very bad, oxygen in the blood low, pneumothorax patients, if there is no timely intervention certainly will not pass.
Fortunately, the cardiopulmonary bypass technique is the most modern treatment for patients with severe respiratory failure that the hospital has used to treat other patients. We only promptly announced that we will use ECMO for patients and deploy it, because at that time it was very stressful, afraid if not fast, we could not keep up.
Then, in the process, when the patient got better, gave up ECMO, we saw the light at the end of the tunnel glimmer, more opportunities, we were very happy; but on the first night of ECMO withdrawal, the patient had 3 cycles to stop circulating for 45 minutes.
That time is 1 am, if not monitored carefully, it can lead to the patient&#39;s life danger. But we monitor 3 rounds continuously 24/24 hours, there are people monitoring the vital factors of the patient so they can immediately detect and manage acute
timely rescue.
We remember the words of encouragement from the community
* Now everyone thanks the frontline doctors. As for the doctor, what makes him feel will remember, remember forever on these special days?
- Every doctor is just like me, when the patient is better, is stable, and is discharged from the hospital is what we are most happy about. The happy moment is the moment when you see your patient getting better day by day.
In the early days, everyone worried about the situation of serious patients, thinking that these 5 patients were able to save 3 patients. But now all 5 are fine, 2 have recovered, and the other 3 have gotten better. Do your best, now save all patients.
The unexpected images that we saw in the media, like the story of the British patient&#39;s husband and wife, when they left the hospital to fly back to the hospital, and then I temporarily stayed in a bunk bed, a patient bed in the area. cushioned during the days in the hospital ..., normally such has been part of our lives these past few days.
Treatment for patients at the National Hospital of Tropical Diseases - Photo: VD
* What else surprises the doctor?
- Those are words of encouragement from the community. A lot of encouragement. The first week we ate bento prepared by the hospital cafeteria. The lunch box is also very delicious, but eating for a whole week is also boring.
However, only after the first week, people everywhere moved food, which they cooked hot, were coffee cups with messages, many emotional messages and shared. I took these messages to think about my medical career. Obviously we are doing our duty but in beloved terms
and take care.
When two colleagues at the same hospital were infected, it was a difficult time. This disease thought he had taken the initiative to prevent but still infect. However, at that time, he realized that the feelings of his people, in difficulties, the more they unite and love each other.
There were drivers who texted him that he was ready to take part in transporting patients, having resuscitation colleagues everywhere, the message was ready to assist, there was nothing difficult to say. Despite the illness, people are more difficult to unite and courage. That&#39;s what I look at
see through a pandemic.
* Once the doctor said this was the longest away from home. How does the family share with the doctor? Now the doctor is getting used to family life?
- My wife and I are from the same countryside, have known each other since childhood. The resuscitation profession, at night, was called to the hospital. Looking at our pictures in the ring, we didn&#39;t have much time to think, but people touched us.
When ordered to return, emotions are difficult to describe. If only the worldwide epidemic had settled down, if only they could all go home, this battle would be over, I would be happier to step back.
As for us now, happy, sad and confused. Because there are still brothers in it, there are still serious patients to watch, doctors are still carrying. Even if this time, I still think ...
Doctor Dong Phu Khiem - Photo: VIET DUNG
&quot;That night was a very stressful, emergency 30-minute night and the patient&#39;s heart still showed no sign of returning. The team was full of us, because the emergency stopped the circulation very tired, each The doctor only squeezes the heart for a few minutes and the hands are dismayed, both nervous because of the reason to stop the circulation.
Normally, emergency treatment with 30-minute cardiac arrest if the heart does not beat again is considered as emergency failure. But really the efforts of so many people have been devoted to patients, patients have improved, so much expectations, and yet
Now that I failed, it was too regrettable.
We kept trying, trying and fortunately after 45 minutes, the heart beat. When the patient&#39;s heart beat again, about 2 am, everyone was exhausted, but the spirit was tense but happy, as happy as our relatives had just escaped. All though tired continue to little by little to keep the results &quot;.



Impressive Vietnam: the faces of the anti-epidemic frontline

TTO - For every day more people recovered from COVID-19 are discharged, these people have left behind a normal life to focus on the job. The battle is not over, but the victory certainly bears their optimistic face.




LAN UK implemented
