URL : https://tuoitre.vn/bien-chung-moi-khi-nhiem-covid-19-dong-mau-20200505151637401.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500015

Date : 2020-05-05 16:08:00
Title : New complication of COVID-19 infection: coagulation
Ariticle : 

TTO - In addition to the previously discovered complications such as respiratory failure, nervous system and cardiovascular effects, another threat from the recently discovered COVID-19 was that blood clots could damage health. fast, even death.




Breakthrough: Israel successfully isolated antibodies to corona virus that cause COVID-19



Detects antibodies that prevent COVID-19 infection



COVID-19 crisis in Russia: 3 mysterious doctors fell down, hundreds of medical workers went on strike




In addition to the complications that have been detected such as respiratory failure, nervous system and cardiovascular effects, another new threat from SARS-CoV-2 virus has been detected as blood clots - Photo: AP
Follow
Bloomberg,
Doctors around the world are paying attention to a range of disorders related to blood clotting: from benign skin lesions in the feet (sometimes called Covid toes) to blockages of blood vessels, respiratory failure life-threatening, heart failure, stroke.
In fact, this is not a surprise as the infection often increases the risk of blood clots, but it is still considered to be the most serious complication of COVID-19 in the last 1-2 months.
Of the 50 million people who died from the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918, many were associated with blood clotting complications. Viruses including HIV, dengue fever and Ebola are all known to cause blood cells to clot. The coagulation effect may be even more pronounced in patients with COVID-19.
Margaret Pisani, associate professor of medicine at Yale University (USA), said that coagulation is probably the most important cause of COVID-19-infected patients with rapid health exhaustion and severe hypoxia.
If the blood clots are left untreated, they can attack damaging health in just a few days to months even when COVID-19-infected people are cured - Photo: Shutterstock
Separate studies from France and the Netherlands found that up to 30% of COVID-19-infected patients had pulmonary embolism - a type of pulmonary embolism that can be fatal. And this usually happens when blood clots from a deep vein in the leg move to the lungs.
What confuses the medical community, however, is that blood clots in COVID-19-infected patients appear in arterial catheters and filters used in patients with kidney failure. They will hinder the flow of blood in the lungs, cause shortness of breath, rapid deterioration of patient health and an increased risk of death.
If left untreated, blood clots in large arteries can stress the heart and cause a heart attack, says Edwin van Beek, head of radiology at the University of Edinburgh&#39;s Medical Research Institute. Even small blood clots in the pulmonary tissue capillaries can disrupt blood flow, reducing the use of oxygen-assisted ventilators for patients with ventilators.
More seriously, even after being treated with COVID-19, patients will still be able to have pulmonary hypertension leading to difficulty breathing, exhaustion of health. This symptom is easily mistaken for a patient who is re-positive, but may be just reactivation of the whole blood clotting problem.
In addition, blood clots can form in other parts of the body, potentially damaging vital organs including the heart, kidneys, liver, intestines and other tissues.
Manhattan&#39;s Mount Sinai Health System said it had recorded 5 cases of stroke from COVID-19 infection. They all show signs of blood clotting. Although the number is not much, it also indicates that coagulation is a serious complication that cannot be underestimated.
Going into research early may yield the best methods to treat patients. Most importantly, we will know what kind of COVID-19 complications you need to have: common respiratory failure or blood clots.



Breakthrough: Israel successfully isolated antibodies to corona virus that cause COVID-19

The Israeli Defense Minister said the antibody developed by the Israeli Biological Research Institute could kill the virus that causes COVID-19 in the body of an infected person. The above antibody formula is waiting for a patent, then mass production.




KA KA (According to Bloomberg)
