URL : https://tuoitre.vn/thiet-bi-y-te-cap-cang-13-ti-ve-den-benh-vien-40-ti-dong-20200504081051212.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400004

Date : 2020-05-04 08:22:00
Title : Medical equipment docked at VND 13 billion, to the hospital VND 40 billion
Ariticle : 

TTO - The state of cluttered and pushed up equipment prices has been going on for years. There are equipment imported prices to Vietnam ports on 13 billion, but the winning bid to the hospital more than 40 billion!




The company sells testing machines to Quang Nam from 7.2 billion to 4.8 billion



COVID-19 testing machine price fluctuations: Many bidding packages have been &quot;unexpectedly&quot; favored



COVID-19 test device purchase: Many places say &#39;try it, not buy it&#39;




Quang Binh and Quang Tri SARS-CoV-2 testing systems have just been bought - Photo: QUOC NAM
Exchange with
Youth
On 3-5, an expert of the Ministry of Health said Circular 58, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance (guiding procurement at administrative and non-business units, social organizations ...) guides when shopping For goods not subject to the State management of prices, units may base themselves on one of the documents, including: estimated price to be delivered; quotation of suppliers; valuation; previous winning bid result.
&quot;The legal gap of these bases is wide, which has led to a situation where each place has a price, a&quot; blind price &quot;because the latter unit does not know how much the previous unit purchased, how the market is. .. due to unlisted &quot;- this expert said.
However, before the bidding situation, the appointment of contractors led to a general result that the price of medical equipment was high compared to the import price, the path of the bypass device, raising the price, this representative said. Previously, there was a similar situation in bidding for drugs, but there has been a regulation on publicizing the winning bid for drugs, wholesale and import prices expected on the official website of the Drug Administration of Vietnam, the Ministry of Health. that the bidding and evaluation units bid higher than the published price will be detected immediately.
While the price of medical equipment and medical supplies has not been forced to publicize these prices, the &quot;open rib&quot; regulation has resulted in messy prices.
According to learn by
Youth
, the messy, high-priced equipment prices have been going on for years. There are equipment imported prices to Vietnam ports on 13 billion, winning bid to the hospital more than 40 billion!
This situation has happened with drug prices in hospitals and has been partially overcome, but the price of medical equipment and medical supplies remains open, leading to high prices such as the purchase of testing machines in translate this COVID-19.
Mr. Le Van Phuc - Head of Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies Department of Vietnam Social Insurance - said that the current regulations on insurance are participating in drug procurement councils, but bidding for medical equipment and supplies is not.
&quot;We have statistical data on winning bids for equipment and supplies to be sent to the local social insurance agency, avoiding the situation of buying 7, buying 10 and paying high prices with insurance, but in the long run. Ministry of Health should have sanctions to handle this situation, if the winning bid price as with current medicine is also very good &quot;- Mr. Phuc said.
Publicity will reduce prices
The representative of the Ministry of Health also said that after auditing, there were opinions that the price of butterfly needles was more than 1,000 VND / needle, in some places more than 7,000 VND / needle.
The Ministry of Health has made a written explanation because the technical features of each needle are different, not the hospital &quot;so foolish&quot; that the hospital you bought more than 1,000 VND / needle but you bought more than 7,000 VND / needle.
Current laws do not prohibit the same type of device, type of feature, model but different prices, the reason for the time of bidding, the supplier&#39;s policy, the supply quantity ... are also related to the price.
In exchange with
Youth
, the representative of the Ministry of Health said as above and emphasized that &quot;if the import price is mandatory, the previous winning price will be difficult to push the price of equipment.&quot;



From the COVID-19 purchase price hike: The public service ethics is degraded!

TTO - In the context of the outbreak, there was a luxuriant affair with the purchase of a high-performance Realtime PCR machine for COVID-19 testing and there were officials prosecuted, indicating that it was necessary to &quot;incinerate&quot; immediately at the administrative levels. locally.




LINEN
