URL : https://tuoitre.vn/phap-phat-hien-mot-so-tre-mac-hoi-chung-la-nghi-lien-quan-covid-19-20200430061221813.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000003

Date : 2020-04-30 06:12:00
Title : France discovered a number of children with strange syndrome associated with COVID-19
Ariticle : 

TTO - French authorities say more than 10 cases of coronary artery inflammation have been reported




Vietnam studies using cured patient plasma to treat COVID-19



Australian newspaper deciphered the extraordinary results in preventing COVID-19 of Vietnam




French Health Minister Olivier Veran issued the announcement on April 29, the day after British health officials warned of a rare inflammatory syndrome related to the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes respiratory infections. Autoclaved COVID-19.
Speaking on Franceinfo, Mr. Veran said about 15 children of different ages have the syndrome while many cases have been confirmed in Italy, Spain and Switzerland.
Mr. Veran raised symptoms of children with this syndrome such as high fever, gastrointestinal problems and coronary artery inflammation that supply the heart with the risk of ischemic heart disease.
According to this minister, fortunately, there have been no cases of children dying from this rare syndrome.
However, some of the cases in France and in the UK positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus cause some concern and need to be alert. There is not enough evidence to confirm the link between the new disease and the COVID-19 pandemic spreading globally, but Veran said France is taking the cases &quot;very seriously&quot;. Mr. Veran urged experts to collect more relevant data.
The day before, British Health Minister Matt Hancock also reported a number of cases of strange syndrome and mentioned the possibility of this new disease related to SARS-CoV-2 virus.
Italian and British medical experts are currently investigating the possible link between the COVID-19 epidemic and a disease-like illness group Kawasaki, a serious inflammatory disease in young children with symptoms such as high fever and inflammation. Coronary arteries supply blood to the heart.
Doctors in Northern Italy, one of the areas most affected by the COVID-19 epidemic in the world, have recorded a large number of children under the age of 9 who have symptoms similar to Kawasaki disease, which more common in Asian countries.
Kawasaki Disease, named after a Japanese pediatrician, is a common illness in children under 5 years of age that causes acute fever with a generalized rash.
The disease causes inflammation in the artery walls of small and medium-sized arteries throughout the body, including the coronary arteries, supplying blood to the heart muscle. Kawasaki is also known as mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome because it also affects the lymph nodes, skin and mucous membranes inside the nose, mouth and throat.
Without treatment, 1 in 5 children with Kawasaki disease will have coronary lesions. For most children with the disease, this damage is usually small and does not last long. However, in some children, the lesions may persist until they are mature, causing coronary artery walls to become weak and forming aneurysms. These aneurysms are very dangerous because they can prevent blood from flowing to the heart muscles.



VNA
