URL : https://tuoitre.vn/bac-kinh-khong-cho-who-tham-gia-dieu-tra-nguon-goc-virus-corona-20200501225128184.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200002

Date : 2020-05-01 23:17:00
Title : Beijing does not allow WHO to participate in investigating the corona virus origin
Ariticle : 

TTO - WHO Representative in China Gauden Galea said that there were many national investigations into the origin of corona virus in China but Beijing rejected WHO proposals to join.




Australia says there is no evidence of corona virus escaping from a Chinese laboratory



The German chancellor called China to &#39;transparent&#39; the corona virus origin



Mr. Trump said corona involved the Wuhan laboratory, threatening Chinese tax penalties




WHO Representative in China Gauden Galea - Photo: REUTERS
Speaking on Sky News on May 1, Mr. Galea revealed that China was conducting a number of national investigations on COVID-19, including
corona virus origin
new strain.
&quot;But we have not yet been allowed to participate. The World Health Organization (WHO) has sent a proposal to the National Health Commission and the Chinese Government. The origin of the virus is very important and priority now.&quot; is to know as much as possible about the virus to prevent an outbreak, &quot;argued Galea to Sky News.
When asked whether there was a good reason for China not to invite WHO to join, Mr. Galea said no.
However, the WHO representative in China noted that its experts cannot view the records in two laboratories related to corona virus in China. One is Wuhan Institute of Virology and the other is the Wuhan Disease Control and Prevention Center.
&quot;From all the available evidence, my colleagues in WHO believe that the origin of the virus is in Wuhan but comes from nature, not man-made,&quot; said the WHO representative in China. .
However, Mr. Galea said that it is still necessary to view the records, data in the two above mentioned units to have a full view of the origin of the virus.
Talking about the criticisms that WHO was irresponsible at the beginning of the pandemic, Mr. Galea said that WHO himself, like anyone, &quot;only knew what China reported at the time.&quot;
WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (left) in a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping - Photo: THX
In January, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and a team of experts from the organization traveled to China to learn how to handle the country&#39;s disease. Mr. Tedros had a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping later in Beijing.
The most popular hypothesis today is that the new strain of corona virus (SARS-CoV-2) has been transmitted from bat to human in a wildlife market in Wuhan. However, there are still other opinions that the virus is an artificial product escaping from the laboratory of Wuhan Institute of Virology.
Also on May 1, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic expressed his hope that China would invite its experts to join the SARS-CoV-2 origin investigation.
Jasarevic stressed that investigating the origin of the virus is necessary to prevent future outbreaks.
According to WHO representatives, China is conducting separate investigations into the origin of the virus, including identifying the animals sold in the market in Wuhan and their origins, and taking environmental samples at the places where they were discovered. first infected person ...



Secretary of State: China reported late and concealed information with WHO

TTO - The latest statement of US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is considered as a response to China&#39;s previous statements that Beijing was very transparent about COVID-19 when sharing information with WHO.




BAO DUY
