URL : https://tuoitre.vn/test-nhanh-elisa-buoc-tien-moi-cua-viet-nam-20200502081305654.htm
ID : TUOI2020050200010

Date : 2020-05-02 10:26:00
Title : Quick test elisa: A new step of Vietnam
Ariticle : 

TTO - While existing rapid tests detect 60-70% of samples with antibodies, this test kit reaches 95% in sensitivity and specificity, and does not cross-react with other viruses as already. encountered in quick test.




Directly: Hanoi has deployed rapid test of COVID-19 for free at many locations



Randomly tested nearly 1,000 samples by quick test, detecting 3 suspected samples COVID-19



Da Nang equipped with quick test drug test driver driver




New corona strain corona test kits have been produced by Vietnamese and Japanese scientists - Photo: THUY ANH
In addition to the realtime PCR test, a product of the Military Medical Academy scientists being widely used domestically and for export, the research team of the Central Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology coordinated with the University. Nagasaki (Japan) has successfully studied the quick test by elisa method.
Prof. Dr. Dang Duc Anh - Director of the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology - shared in February when the scientists of the institute isolated the new strain of corona virus (now called SARS-CoV-2). The idea of manufacturing test COVID-19 is also formed. The research team of 15 people from the Nagasaki University coordinating institute carried out the study immediately and in April this study was &quot;flowering, bearing fruit&quot;.
&quot;There are currently two techniques used to detect SARS-CoV-2, including molecular biology techniques (realtime PCR) and the second is serological testing using rapid tests. The advantage of the rapid test method is the time with fast results, but the downside is that the accuracy is not high, so we look for a method that has both fast results and higher accuracy.
Through initial evaluation, we found that the elisa biome used the serological test used to detect antibodies in people who may have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 with good sensitivity and specificity compared to other tests. quickly available &quot;- Mr. Duc Anh said.
Another advantage of this method is that it is possible to test multiple specimens at the same time. The most important in this technique is the development of &quot;antigens&quot;.
&quot;We and the Japanese scientists in the group have created antigens used in this biome, and the negative and positive control for control have been developed by the institute since the virus was isolated&quot; - Mr. Duc English more info.
Currently, the research results have been transferred to the Research Center for Vaccines and Medical Biologicals (Polyvac) to produce finished products, Polyvac has also deployed the product circulation registration at the Ministry of Health to be able to use in serological studies in Vietnam. Specifically, research on the proportion of people who have antibodies in the community, how many people have been infected with this virus ... and have a plan in disease prevention.
The product of the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology and Nagasaki University (at the time of publication) is the fifth group in the world that has successfully developed this test, of which 50% is contributed by Vietnam. 50% of the Japanese side.
Antibodies can be detected after 2 hours
The research team said that after taking the samples and putting them into &quot;wells&quot;, the testing technician will put the plastic sheet into the result readers, which is the elisa machine. Vietnam has used this technique to test antibodies for a number of diseases such as dengue, HIV, Japanese encephalitis. Almost all preventive medicine units from the district level, many hospitals have also been equipped with this elisa machine, the technique has been implemented for many years. &quot;Using elisa machine with this biota is suitable, not more investment&quot; - said the representative of the research team.
While existing rapid tests detect 60-70% of samples with antibodies, the test kit is 95% sensitive and specific, and does not cross-react with other viruses as seen in quick test.
The elisa technique using this biopsy will give results after 2 hours and the best time to detect is from the 8th day after the patient is exposed to the source of disease or onset of illness.



Randomly tested nearly 1,000 samples by quick test, detecting 3 suspected samples COVID-19

TTO - These three samples are in Dong Da district area and are all related to Bach Mai Hospital.




LAN ANH
