URL : https://tuoitre.vn/vi-sao-the-gioi-chong-dich-bang-cach-xet-nghiem-va-xet-nghiem-20200504230308964.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500003

Date : 2020-05-05 00:25:00
Title : Why is the world anti-epidemic by ... testing and testing?
Ariticle : 

TTO - Until now, two methods of COVID-19 prevention and control, namely vaccines and specific drugs, have not yet been implemented, so the measures taken in most countries are testing and isolating patients.




Italy applies anti-epidemic method COVID-19 of China




Medical staff test COVID-19 in Ontario, Canada on April 27 - Photo: REUTERS
According to recent studies, over 75% of people carrying the new coronavirus virus have no symptoms. This is the main source of infection in the community. Preventing the disease is nothing more than isolating the entire sick person. But to do that, it needs to
test
on a large scale.
The US sets a goal of 1 million tests per day
Extensive testing is more beneficial than identifying infected and isolated people. Firstly, it allows local authorities and epidemiologists to map out disease outbreaks and isolate the community.
Second, the test allows sketching of the scale of the epidemic as well as tracking its spread.
Third, it allows hospitals to plan beds, human resources and medical equipment as well as help protect health workers.
Finally, the virus information allows virologists to study the nature and mutations from which to trace the origin of the virus.
According to the New York Times, recent studies of Mount Sinai Hospital (New York, USA) show that coronary infections in New York mainly come from Europe rather than from China.
South Korea is a pioneer in wide area testing. As one of the countries with the largest number of people infected with COVID-19 in the early stages, Korea has succeeded in limiting community spread.
Compared to Italy, on March 1, Italy had only 1,700 cases and 41 deaths, while in Korea, there were 3,736 cases and 21 deaths. After exactly three weeks, the numbers in Italy were 59,138 people infected and 5,476 deaths, while in South Korea were 8,897 and 104.
A Bloomberg article wrote: &quot;With all cafes and shops open, large-scale testing in South Korea was successful.&quot;
The United States with more than 1.2 million people infected is the most infected country in the world, but the United States is also the country that has tested more than any other country, with more than 6 million times.
In the early days of the epidemic, every test in the US had to go through the CDC (US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), now testing scores are available in all states and the number of tests a day has increased. from 100,000 at the end of March to 300,000 at the end of April.
President Donald Trump is expected to soon have more than 1 million tests a day, even 5 million a day in the context of the epidemic has not shown signs of cooling down and wants to reopen the economy.
Chart of number of tests performed over time in several countries - Source: OurWorlinData / Oxford University
Russia is the country with the later outbreak of epidemics. By mid-March, Russia had fewer than 100 cases, but that number increased rapidly in April, reaching 105,000 by the end of April.
Currently, according to SkyNews, Russia is speeding up testing with a capacity of 100,000 tests per day, including both public and private health systems. With over 3 million tests, Russia is the second largest country in the world after the US.
Germany is the first European country to conduct mass testing. With a capacity of over 350,000 tests a week, it allows Germany to perform more than 2.5 million tests. Along with the world&#39;s best healthcare system, COVID-19 mortality rates in Germany are always low.
Other European countries severely affected by the COVID-19 epidemic, such as Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and France, are undergoing mass testing in the hope of reducing the spread in the community when implemented. Social separation for nearly a month and is planning to reopen the economy.
Vietnam leads the way in testing each positive case
Vietnam is not a country in the top 10 countries with the most tests (ranked 25th) but currently leads the world in the number of tests in each positive case.
This is the result of the tireless efforts of the government system, epidemiological investigations and the medical team in dealing with each positive case.
Extensive testing around virus carriers severed the chain of transmission in the community. Vietnam is aiming to become the first country to pay for the COVID-19 epidemic without any deaths.
A graph of the number of tests performed per positive case. Source: OurWorlinData / Oxford University
In Singapore, the leading country in Southeast Asia in terms of the number of people infected but the number of deaths is low, has been conducting extensive testing since the number of new infections detected most of the foreign workers.
By April 28, this number accounted for 85% of nearly 15,000 infections in the country. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong this week announced the need to speed up widespread testing. By the end of April, Singapore can do 8,000 tests a day compared to 2,900 tests earlier this month.
Speaking to Bloomberg on April 24, Chan Chun Sing, Singapore&#39;s Minister of Industry and Trade, said Singapore is planning to reopen the economy within a month, when most people are test.
Like it or not, large-scale community testing is an important weapon to control the disease and reopen the economy. Without it, life would become unstable and the disease could come back anytime.
Although testing costs a lot of money and investment, but, as Umair Irfan, Vox.com&#39;s science journalist said: &quot;There will be no simpler and cheaper measures,&quot; or like Jeff Bezos, boss of Amazon, multinational corporation: &quot;Only regular testing at a global level will keep people safe, the economy returns and the next step.&quot;



Ho Chi Minh City will test COVID-19 4 times for people on entry

TTO - On the evening of 3-5, Ho Chi Minh City Center for Disease Control said that due to the risk assessment of immigration cases in this period, the city decided to concentrate isolation cases after the entry. scene will be sampled 4 times.




GERMANY joint
