URL : https://tuoitre.vn/my-ghi-nhan-so-nguoi-chet-ky-luc-trong-24h-cac-nha-tang-le-o-new-york-qua-tai-20200430094210663.htm
ID : TUOI2020043000006

Date : 2020-04-30 10:43:00
Title : The US recorded a record death toll in 24 hours, funeral homes in New York overloaded
Ariticle : 

TTO - According to the latest real-time data of Johns Hopkins University published on April 29 (local time), the United States has recorded a record number of deaths in the past 24 hours with 2,502 deaths.




Mr. Trump wants to open the economy, the governor of New York said not sure



Governor of New York: The number of deaths is constantly decreasing, the darkest stage is over!



The New York governor rejected the decision to close down public schools




A policeman stands near where officers handle bodies of COVID-19 sick people in trucks at Andrew Cleckley&#39;s funeral home in Brooklyn district in New York City, New York State, USA on April 29, 2020 - Photos : REUTERS
Thus, after two days of relatively reducing the number of deaths on Sunday (April 26) and Monday (April 27), the number of corona virus deaths increased in the US. According to Johns Hopkins University, up to now, at least 60,853 Americans have died from COVID-19.
According to AFP news agency, in New York, the local epicenter of the United States, only one funeral home still accepts the bodies, while other places have refused because they can not be resolved.
Even the only funeral home that serves this is not because they are not overloaded. The real reason is that the insiders shared that they could not bear the painful feeling of having to refuse families that were so miserable by the loss of loved ones right now.
The daily death toll for COVID-19 in New York has now halved from its peak of 799 on April 9, but the phone ring for the International funeral and cremation services company, a business run by women in Harlem continues to fall.
&quot;They are so desperate, they say &#39;oh my god, people will take my relatives to the burial areas of the poor, the unknown, and the hospitals no longer have their bodies. Can you help?&quot; Warrring, the funeral director, one of the four women who run the company, told AFP.
&quot;It&#39;s hard to tell them that I&#39;ll be back in two days, which hurts me,&quot; she said.
Since New York became the center of the US COVID-19 epidemic last month, the International Burial and Cremation Service Company has been overwhelmed by work.
For many families in New York state, where more than 20,000 people have died from COVID-19, finding a funeral home that can receive and deal with their loved ones is very difficult.
&quot;People from all over the county called us because so many funeral homes were overloaded. They didn&#39;t even answer the phone,&quot; Ms. Warring said.
Alisha Narvaez, manager at the International funeral and cremation services company, did not want to make those once more depressed relatives once desperate, so she still tried to accept every body taken, regardless of This means their entire team will work day and night.
&quot;The heartbreaking thing for me is that I was unable to serve them the best way I wanted to. So the hardest part was rejecting families, and that&#39;s what I tried to avoid having to do so.&quot; Narvaez said.



Still 606 cases of COVID-19 died a day, New York extended the blockade to 15-5

TTO - Governor Andrew Cuomo on April 16 decided to extend the blockade in New York state until May 15, although the number of deaths from SARS-CoV-2 virus in the state in the past 24 hours was low. at most for 10 consecutive days.




D. KIM THA HAB
