URL : https://tuoitre.vn/viet-nam-da-tiem-thu-nghiem-vacxin-ngua-covid-19-tren-chuot-20200503152853069.htm
ID : TUOI2020050300002

Date : 2020-05-03 15:54:00
Title : Vietnam has already tested its COVID-19 vaccine in mice
Ariticle : 

TTO - Mr. Do Tuan Dat, director of the No. 1 Vaccine and Biological Products Company, Ministry of Health, which is developing a COVID-19 vaccine, said its researchers had vaccinated mice and mice. take blood to evaluate the effectiveness of prevention,




COVID-19 pm 3-5: Nearly 3 million tourists flocked to Beijing, Shanghai



COVID-19 morning 3-5 morning: Governor of New York refused to reopen, Vietnam 0 new cases



From the COVID-19 purchase price hike: The public service ethics is degraded!




Studying production of vaccines at the No. 1 Vaccine and Biological Products Company, the Ministry of Health, which is studying the production of COVID-19 vaccines - photos: NGUYEN KHANH KHANH
Mr. Dat said this is the first stage of the development process
vaccines
, after the vaccine has been fitted with corona virus antigen in the laboratory.
&quot;We have tested mice and blood samples to evaluate the immunological effect at the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology.
After 2-3 weeks there will be results of immune response, safety. At that time, we will continue with the dosage, official testing on animals, on small and large groups &quot;- Mr. Dat said.
According to Mr. Dat, there are currently about 70-80 vaccine developers in the world who are on a similar level to Vietnam, that is, testing on mice, with 8 companies advancing faster, have tested parallel and human injections. object.
Because this is a new disease, there is not yet a commercial vaccine product to prevent COVID-19 and it is in a pandemic, so many manufacturers have been moving in the direction of simultaneous injection of human and animal testing.
&quot;Vietnam is monitoring the effectiveness of human immunization in these 8 manufacturers, if it is effective and safe, we also consider to take the same step. However, all should be careful. respect and ensure safety &quot;- Mr. Dat said.
This is the first time Vietnamese vaccine developers have studied the production of vaccines with funding from a domestic investment fund, in a very new way and accessible to the world.
Vietnam is considered a country with a vaccine manufacturing industry and has produced vaccines since the 1960s, with dozens of vaccines currently serving the expanded vaccination program in the country.



LINEN
