URL : https://congnghe.tuoitre.vn/nghien-cuu-va-san-xuat-vacxin-phong-covid-19-nhiem-vu-kho-can-thuc-day-tien-do-20200504193536709.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400017

Date : 2020-05-04 20:13:00
Title : Research and production of COVID-19 vaccines: difficult tasks and progress
Ariticle : 

TTO - Promoting Vietnamese vaccine and biopharmaceutical manufacturers to accelerate participation in research and production of COVID-19 vaccines, is the content of the meeting at the Ministry of Science and Technology in the afternoon of 4-5.




Tom Hanks and his wife donated plasma to create anti-corona vaccine



Ho Chi Minh City tests every day that COVID-19 patients have been discharged from the hospital



COVID-19 epidemic 4-5: The US has more than 67,000 deaths, Vietnam more cases cured




Scientists and health experts all believe that producing COVID-19 vaccine is very difficult because it is a new vaccine.
In order to concretize the direction of Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam, assigning the Ministry of Science and Technology to assume the prime responsibility and coordinate with the Ministry of Health, the ministries, branches, organizations and enterprises in organizing research and production of vaccines against COVID-19 and the Ministry of Science and Technology. held a meeting on researching and producing vaccines against COVID-19.
Manufacturers of vaccines and biological drugs in Vietnam such as Vaccine and Biological Products No. 1 Company (Vabiotech), Research Center for Manufacturing Vaccines and Medical Biologicals (Polyvac), Institute of Vaccines and Medical Biologicals Trang (IVAC), Nanogen Pharmaceutical Biotechnology Co., Ltd. and experts, research institutes, universities, etc. attended this important meeting.
After listening to the research and production units of vaccines and biological drugs reporting the production research plans of each unit, the experts confirmed that the COVID-19 vaccine is a new vaccine, very difficult, especially. The problem of immune response of COVID-19 is still unclear.
According to information shared at the meeting, up to now, there are about 100 units of COVID-19 vaccine research in the world with many different technologies, of which 8 vaccines have been clinical trials in humans. Research and production of a vaccine must follow a very strict process, requiring very expensive and long-term costs.
In the case of a pandemic, a number of stages can be conducted in parallel to shorten the time period but still ensure the safety of people - experts said.
At the same time, scientists and managers with experience in this field all affirm: To research and produce vaccines in general, especially COVID-19 vaccine, requires participation and coordination. of many organizations and units in which enterprises and vaccine production units have to be prioritized as the host agency.



T. HA
