URL : https://tuoitre.vn/nuong-coc-an-ba-anh-em-ngo-doc-nhap-vien-20200505171803083.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500016

Date : 2020-05-05 17:34:00
Title : Roasted toad to eat, three poisoned brothers hospitalized
Ariticle : 

TTO - Kidnapped to play and then baked by themselves, three children in Tan Ky district, Nghe An were hospitalized for emergency.




Video: Eat the poisonous toad 3 mothers and have to be hospitalized



Children are at risk of poisoning when eating toad meat



Women poisoned by eating organs and eggs




On the afternoon of 5-5, information from the leader of Nghia Thai Commune People&#39;s Committee, Tan Ky District, Nghe An, said that the health of 3 pediatric botulism patients was stable after two days of hospitalization.
Around 16:00 pm, 3-5 pm, while taking a break from COVID-19 translation room, the three brothers included TMA and TVNg. (same age 7) and TTANg. (6 years old), living in Nghia Thai commune, invited each other to the garden to play, kidnap and bake.
After that, the family members discovered that the incident immediately caused vomiting for the three children and took them to the emergency hospital.
At the time of receiving the emergency, all 3 brothers had symptoms of dizziness, nausea and diarrhea. Immediately the doctor prescribed fluid and gastric lavage for children.
Currently their health has been temporarily stable, not life-threatening and is being monitored at the hospital.
Previously, on the afternoon of April 27, four children in Lang Quan commune, Yen Son district, Tuyen Quang also had to be admitted to the emergency room after learning how to roast toad videos on YouTube.
Particularly, the youngest child (5 years old) with the most severe poisoning was transferred to the National Hospital of Pediatrics (Hanoi) to continue treatment.
According to medical experts, toads contain toxins (plastic toads) in some parts. In it, plastic toad (in the posterior ear, gland on eyes and glands on toad skin), in the liver and ovaries.
Toad toxins are bufotoxin compounds that affect the heart, hallucinations, lower blood pressure ...



Studied on YouTube toast to eat, 4 children poisoned

TTO - 4 children in Lang Quan commune, Yen Son district (Tuyen Quang) had to be admitted to the emergency room after learning the toasting video on the internet.




D. HOA
