URL : https://tuoitre.vn/dot-pha-israel-phan-lap-thanh-cong-khang-the-diet-virus-corona-gay-benh-covid-19-20200505140356694.htm
ID : TUOI2020050500012

Date : 2020-05-05 14:42:00
Title : Breakthrough: Israel successfully isolated antibodies to corona virus that cause COVID-19
Ariticle : 

The Israeli Defense Minister said the antibody developed by the Israeli Biological Research Institute could kill the virus that causes COVID-19 in the body of an infected person. The above antibody formula is waiting for a patent, then mass production.




Countries test antibodies in the blood for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients



Detecting many antibodies prevents corona virus from entering human cells



Belgium develops antibodies capable of destroying corona




Israeli health workers take samples for COVID-19 test in Tel Aviv city on April 6, 2020 - Photo: THX / TTXVN
Scientists at the Israeli Institute of Biological Research (IIBR) claim to have successfully isolated an antibody that is particularly effective at stopping the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 acute respiratory infections.
In a statement 4-5 days after visiting IIBR, Israeli Defense Minister Naftali Bennett said the &quot;monoclonal antibody&quot; developed by IIBR could kill the COVID-19 virus in the body of an infected person. Mr. Bennett emphasized that this is &quot;an important breakthrough towards finding a cure for COVID-19&quot;.
According to IIBR Director Shmuel Shapira, the above antibody formula is in the process of being granted a patent, after which an international pharmaceutical company will make mass production.
IIBR leads Israeli efforts to develop treatments and vaccines for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which include blood testing from people who have recovered from COVID-19.
The antibodies taken from these blood samples are proteins in the immune system that remain after the body successfully defends the SARS-CoV-2 virus. These antibodies are considered a key to help open the direction of treatment.
Antibodies isolated at IIBR are monoclonal, meaning they are taken from a cell that has recovered from disease and may therefore be more effective in treating the disease.
Meanwhile, the magazine
Science Direct
The May issue publishes information, in a number of other countries, that scientists have developed treatments for COVID-19 from polyclonal antibodies, antibodies taken from two or more cells of the lineage. different.
Israel was one of the first countries in the world to close the border and impose strict restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. To date the country has recorded 16,246 cases and 235 deaths from the new strain of corona virus.



The oldest COVID-19 patient was discharged with 10 others

TTO - Today 5-5, Central Tropical Diseases Hospital announced the cure and discharged 11 patients, including 161 patients - COVID-19 oldest cases today.




VNA
