URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/phong-chong-benh-truyen-nhiem/13917/28-tinh-thanh-pho-tiep-tuc-thuc-hien-chi-thi-16-ct-ttg
ID : VCDC2020050500001

Date : 2020-04-16 00:00:00
Title : 28 provinces and cities continued to implement Directive 16 / CT-TTg
Ariticle : 





28 provinces and cities continued to implement Directive 16 / CT-TTg
4/16/2020


 


 







Photo: VGP / Quang Hieu




Specifically, the high-risk local groups include 12 provinces and cities: Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Lao Cai, Quang Ninh, Bac Ninh, Ninh Binh, Ha Tinh, Quang Nam, Binh Thuan, Khanh Hoa and Tay Ninh. These localities continued to focus on leading and directing the implementation of the Directive
16 / CT-TTg
of the Prime Minister until April 22 or 30, 2020 and may be considered to be extended depending on the disease situation in the locality; at the same time pay attention to removing difficulties, promoting production activities, building infrastructure, ensuring goods circulation.

Local groups at risk include 16 provinces and cities: Hai Phong, Can Tho, Lang Son, Thai Nguyen, Ha Nam, Nam Dinh, Nghe An, Thua Thien Hue, Dong Nai, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Kien Giang, Soc Trang, An Giang, Dong Thap and Ha Giang. These localities need to strictly implement measures according to Directive No. 16 / CT-TTg until the end of April 22, 2020 and will be adjusted on April 22 depending on the disease situation.

Low-risk groups include the remaining 35 provinces. Ask the provinces to continue to follow the instructions
15 / CT-TTg
of the Prime Minister.

Also in this Notice, the Prime Minister would like to thank the entire people for overcoming difficulties, supporting and seriously implementing the policy of the Party and the State in social isolation and urgent measures. , anti-epidemic. Appreciating and praising the solidarity, determination and effectiveness of the epidemic prevention of the entire political system, especially of the medical, military, police and diplomatic forces; Information and communication, transportation and localities throughout the country. Up to now, Vietnam still has good control of epidemics, the prevention, detection, zoning, isolation, and treatment have achieved good results, no deaths ... are very positive results.

The Prime Minister praised and highly appreciated all levels, sectors, localities and businesses for focusing on directing production and business, contributing to economic growth and realizing the Government&#39;s double goal. suggest.

In the world, the disease continues to spread, the number of infected people and deaths is increasing every day. Domestic risks still spread in the community and disease outbreaks on a large scale. The Prime Minister requested all levels, sectors and localities to continue strictly implementing the instructions of the Politburo, the Secretariat, the Government and the Prime Minister on the prevention and control of epidemics suitable to the circumstances, conditions of their ministries, branches and localities; mobilize the entire political system, the whole party, the whole army and the whole people, uphold the responsibility of the heads of the committees and authorities; promote effectiveness 4 on the spot to ensure effective prevention and control of epidemics.

Continuing to thoroughly grasp the spirit of &quot;fighting against epidemics like fighting against the enemy&quot;, not subjective, losing vigilance, best protecting the health and life of the people; consistently set out strategies: Prevent, detect quickly; isolation, staking, stamping out thoroughly and effective treatment; take appropriate prudent measures to gradually bring the rhythm of life back to normal, both to ensure the requirements of epidemic prevention, and to maintain the continuity of economic activity at a certain level, prepare for start-up. re-establish the economy on the basis of successful epidemic prevention and control, ensuring basic and long-term stability in employment and social security.

Prevention and control of epidemics with the overarching objective: Restraint, control the rate of infection at the lowest level, limit deaths, minimize negative impacts of pandemic on socio-economic specific circumstances for each locality to flexibly realize the dual objective of epidemic prevention and socio-economic development; formulating production and business organization plans in the situation of prolonged epidemics.

The Chairman of the Provincial People&#39;s Committee specifically decides the implementation of social gap in the province

The Prime Minister assigns the Presidents of the People&#39;s Committees of provinces and cities directly under the Central Government to specifically decide the implementation of social spacing and measures to apply in their respective localities appropriately according to the following levels: requirements, restrictions and recommendations for activities of 3 groups of provinces and cities are: leaving the house at the required levels, opening non-essential stores according to the level, the transportation of passengers by public transportation, the gathering of people.

Besides, specific decisions on business and service establishments need to be closed; take responsibility for close supervision at projects, construction sites, production and business establishments and request to stop production and business if establishments do not ensure epidemic prevention; focus on thoroughly handling detected outbreaks.

The heads of the committees and the local authorities, based on the practical situation of the localities, are responsible for: Deciding to extend the time for implementation of social isolation measures under Directive 16 / CT-TTg, possibly apply social isolation measures at the commune or district level depending on the risk of infection in the area; decide the organization of the Party Congress at all levels and important political events in the locality on the basis of ensuring the satisfaction of epidemic prevention requirements.

No relaxation of immigration restriction policy until April 30, 2020

The ministries of Foreign Affairs, Defense and Public Security continue to strictly control entry activities. No relaxation of immigration restriction policy until April 30, 2020. Strictly control the entry, suspend the entry visa with foreigners all roads, air, waterways (except for diplomatic, civil service, experts, high-tech workers, international investors ...).

The Ministry of Transport shall continue to direct the restriction on international flights to and from Vietnam, restricting domestic flights. The Prime Minister requested the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Defense to intensify the direction of ensuring security and order, especially on the occasion of the Unification Day (April 30) and International Labor (May 1). .

Ministries, branches and localities shall strictly handle violations of disease prevention regulations.

Continuing to enhance activities of online meetings, online learning, online payment; encourage officials to work from home. Ministers, presidents of People&#39;s Committees of provinces and centrally run cities and heads of other state agencies shall decide on this matter in detail, ensuring smooth, quality and proper work, especially those work with a prescription, a deadline.

Guide and support to build 63 quick response teams

The Prime Minister requested the National Steering Committee for COVID-19 prevention and control to assess the readiness to cope with epidemics in localities, most and key localities, localities with road borders. the set; guide and support the development of 63 teams to quickly respond to pandemics in 63 provinces and cities; propose to improve testing capacity and facilities, support human resources for the local health system; study and propose specific response thresholds based on the number of cases, number of deaths and disease spread rates and appropriate response plans for each threshold, to be ready for any situation.

The press and media agencies shall continue to popularize and guide people with knowledge and skills to protect themselves and their families, raise people&#39;s awareness in epidemic prevention and control; avoid giving subjective information, bewilderment among people.

The Ministers of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, Finance and the Presidents of the People&#39;s Committees of the provinces and cities directly under the Central Government are urgently deploying the support of social security in accordance with the Resolution of the Government. The Ministry of Health shall assume the prime responsibility and coordinate with the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Government in preparing and submitting to the Prime Minister for consideration and promulgation a new Directive on prevention and control of COVID-19 epidemic.

According to Chi Kien, the Government&#39;s Web Portal




