URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/01/c_139022351.htm
ID : XINH2020050100035

Date : 2020-05-01 06:15:23
Title : Commentary: U.S. intensified deportation amid COVID-19 adds extra risk to global public health
Ariticle : 
Migrants are in a temporary transit center for migrants from Central America in Tijuana, Mexico, Jan. 9, 2019. 
 (Xinhua/Xin Yuewei)
U.S. policy makers seem to have paid no regard that such moves at the time of a ravaging pandemic may overwhelm the often vulnerable public health systems in the recipient countries and thus pose a grave danger to the global anti-pandemic response.  
by Xinhua writers Yan Liang, Wu Hao
MEXICO CITY, April 29 (Xinhua) -- In the name of protecting American citizens against COVID-19, Washington has recently stepped up deportation of illegal immigrants from Mexico and central American nations.
U.S. policy makers seem to have paid no regard that such moves at the time of a ravaging pandemic may overwhelm the often vulnerable public health systems in the recipient countries and thus pose a grave danger to the global anti-pandemic response.
According to the Guatemalan Health Ministry, at least 100 migrants deported from the United States have tested positive for COVID-19 since late March. Mexico and Haiti have also reported COVID-19 infections among migrants deported from the United States.
Out of fear of growing imported cases, Guatemala suspended regular deportation flights from the United States earlier this month. President Alejandro Giammattei said the flights will remain suspended until the United States can guarantee that the deportees are free of coronavirus.
Dismissing the Central American country's concern, the U.S. threatened reprisals, including visas denials, tariffs and the reduction of economic aid, thereby adding to the severity of the pandemic.
Having long viewed Latin America as its backyard, the United States has so far demonstrated little responsibility toward its smaller neighbors facing the COVID-19.
Slack virus testing or proper isolation before flying the migrants home has put the families of thousands of migrants and others at high risk.
Immigrants, either from Central American countries or elsewhere, contribute greatly to U.S. growth, but many occupy low positions on the socio-economic ladder with lengthy working hours and low pay. Their vulnerability allows for easy exploitation by politicians, especially during an election year.
In implementing such a ruthless deportation policy, the Trump administration aims to win over voters by showing the importance it attaches to public health concerns.
Exporting contagion risks by deportation dampens efforts by Latin America to control the virus. If the coronavirus overwhelms under-resourced Central American countries like Guatemala, it would be a big blow to the global anti-pandemic fight and stall a full victory, which harms everyone, including the United States.
Under the selfish doctrine of "America First," which forms the centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy, the Trump administration has isolated itself from the world, where coordinated efforts have never been more important in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, a common threat to all humanity.  
■