URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/30/c_139019355.htm
ID : XINH2020043000042

Date : 2020-04-30 07:06:31
Title : China actively cooperating with Syria to combat COVID-19: envoy
Ariticle : 


"China is actively cooperating with Syria to combat the virus. The first batch of medical supplies and assistance have arrived in Syria two weeks ago in Damascus."
UNITED NATIONS, April 29 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese envoy said Wednesday that China is actively cooperating with Syria to combat COVID-19, calling on other countries to do the same.
"China is actively cooperating with Syria to combat the virus. The first batch of medical supplies and assistance have arrived in Syria two weeks ago in Damascus," Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, told a Security Council meeting on the humanitarian situation in Syria via video-teleconference.
The ambassador said that China pays close attention to the humanitarian situation in Syria, in particular the impact of COVID-19 on the economic and social development in Syria.
"We take note that the Syrian government takes a series of active measures in healthcare, education, transportation, food production, and many other aspects to prevent and contain the spread of the virus," said Zhang, adding that China appreciates these efforts.
Noting that conflicts for years have undermined Syria's capacity to cope with the pandemic, the envoy said that the international community must not stand by.
China's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Zhang Jun speaks in a press encounter after a close-door Security Council meeting on Syria, at the UN headquarters in New York, March 6, 2020. (Xinhua/Wang Jiangang)
Talking about bilateral cooperation in the fight against the virus, Zhang said that last week, one renowned Chinese hospital held a video meeting with the Syrian Ministry of Health. Chinese medical experts shared their views with their Syrian colleagues on combatting the pandemic.
"We are willing to continue providing assistance within our capacities to Syria and call on other countries to do the same," said the ambassador.
"We encourage the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and other international humanitarian agencies to make more efforts in supporting Syria to respond to the pandemic in various forms," said Zhang.
"The humanitarian issue in Syria is interlinked with political, economic and the security issues and must be managed in the integrated and impartial way," the envoy noted.
"The role of the Syrian government should be brought into full play," Zhang stressed.  
■