URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/29/c_139018799.htm
ID : XINH2020043000007

Date : 2020-04-29 22:24:35
Title : Update: Xi Focus: Xi chairs leadership meeting on regular epidemic control, supporting Hubei development
Ariticle : 
Aerial photo taken on April 29, 2020 shows the Yellow Crane Tower, or Huanghelou, a landmark in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province. 
As the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic wanes, the tower was partly reopened to the public on April 29. (Xinhua/Xiong Qi)
BEIJING, April 29 (Xinhua) -- Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on Wednesday chaired a leadership meeting on regular epidemic prevention and control and supporting the economic and social development in Hubei Province.
The meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee analyzed the COVID-19 situation at home and abroad.
Xi said arduous efforts have brought a decisive outcome to the fight of defending Hubei and its capital city Wuhan, and the nationwide battle against the epidemic has gained major strategic achievements.
The COVID-19 pandemic continues its explosive growth overseas, Xi said, noting the mounting pressure to prevent imported infections and the growing complexity of stemming domestic epidemic resurgence.
He demanded no relaxation in epidemic control to safeguard the hard-earned achievements.
All regions and departments should implement in detail the regular epidemic control measures to provide a solid guarantee to the full recovery of economic and social order, Xi said.
Stressing epidemic prevention and control in key areas and groups, Xi asked Heilongjiang Province in northeast China to make particular efforts to prevent infections in hospitals and go all-out to treat patients.
Hubei, including Wuhan, should continue strengthening community-level epidemic prevention and control, Xi said, also urging Beijing to continue implementing key prevention and control tasks.
Xi also emphasized epidemic control at transportation facilities and tourist sites during the upcoming five-day May Day holiday and asked schools to reopen in an orderly manner.  
■