URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/04/c_139030108.htm
ID : XINH2020050400071

Date : 2020-05-04 21:03:21
Title : Clubs must avoid expensive stars, says iconic coach Heynckes
Ariticle : 
Bayern Munich head coach Jupp Heynckes reacts after the German Cup final match against Eintracht Frankfurt, in Berlin, capital of Germany, on May 19, 2018. Bayern Munich lost 1-3. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)
German coaching legend Jupp Heynckes says it's better to count on promising younger talents instead of buying expensive stars with the COVID-19 pandemic bringing financial pressure to clubs.
By Oliver Trust
BERLIN, May 4 (Xinhua) -- Jupp Heynckes might have retired from his life as a football coach, but with his 75th birthday approaching this Saturday, many fans remember one of Germany's most successful footballers and coaches.
Hordes of birthday cards are arriving at the two-time Champions League (Real Madrid/Bayern) winner's refurbished farmhouse in Schwalmtal located between the Dutch border and his hometown Moenchengladbach. They are a sign of the admiration and respect with which he is held.
The 1975 Euro League winner speaks of a lovely gesture of a Chinese fan living in the German city of Wuppertal. "He sent me 50 protective masks for my wife and myself. He told me to wear it as it can help block the virus," the former coach said.
"I replied with a Bayern shirt with autographs and a German national shirt," he said. Heynckes was talking about lots of letters he has received from China ahead of his birthday. He said he is deeply moved by the solidarity and the greetings from China.
Bayern Munich head coach Jupp Heynckes (Front) greets the audiences after winning the German Bundesliga title at the balcony of the City Hall in Munich, Germany, on May 20, 2018. (Xinhua/Philippe Ruiz)
Capped 39 times, the former striker (243 league goals) may have left the coaching bench after winning the 2013 treble as the first German manager but is still following football intensively.
The 1974 world champion suggested football clubs should do without expensive stars due to the coronavirus crisis.
"I would count on promising younger talents," the 1972 European champion said in a recent interview.
The former manager said over 100 million euros for Manchester City star Leroy Sane is far from a reasonable amount of money. "From my perspective, Sane hasn't yet achieved his breakthrough to become a world class player."
Clubs have to change their financial approach "as even well-balanced clubs might get into difficulties unlike any other before". Heynckes demanded today's professionals accept wage cuts to keep the system running on a new basis.
"As an official, I would rather count on the players I already have instead of buying new ones," he emphasized.
Bayern Munich head coach Jupp Heynckes (Front C) holds the German Bundesliga trophy after winning the match against VfB Stuttgart, in Munich, Germany, on May 12, 2018. (Xinhua/Philippe Ruiz)
The developments in football have been immoral, he says.
"We need solidarity in all parts of society, and we should rethink our lifestyle in general," he underlined. He said he is busy thinking about the world's future as significant challenges lie ahead of humankind, such as climate change and food supply.
He said he hopes football continues despite "games behind closed doors being terrible. But this way seems to be the only one with a chance." Clubs have to consider playing the entire upcoming season without fans.
Heynckes called quick solutions inevitable to secure football's future. "We need to save football right down to the bottom leagues."
After the crisis, clubs have to be aware that fewer fans than usual will be able to spend 110 euro on a ticket, he said. Sponsoring income is going to decrease as merchandising profits will drop.
Football is well advised to consider its social responsibility, commented the former Bayern, Real, Schalke, Leverkusen and Bilbao coach. The sport should get back to its roots and concentrate on its traditional purpose.  
■