URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/04/c_139029215.htm
ID : XINH2020050400031

Date : 2020-05-04 11:15:24
Title : German clubs prepare for league restart as Cologne players test positive for COVID-19
Ariticle : 
The Bundesliga match between Borussia Monchengladbach and FC Cologne in Monchengladbach, Germany on March 11, 2020, is held behind closed doors due to the COVID-19 outbreak. (Xinhua/Ulrich Hufnagel)
   - German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the 16 federal state prime ministers will decide about a possible restart of league action on Wednesday.
   - German professional football clubs announced an extension of regular testing program to ensure political approval to resume regular league action by May 16.
   - The measures include holding the remaining nine rounds of matches behind closed doors and taking players and family members to undergo two tests per week.
By Oliver Trust
BERLIN, May 4 (Xinhua) -- Germany's professional football clubs have extended their hygiene measures to ensure political approval to resume regular league action by May 16.
In collaboration with the league association, the clubs announced an extension of their regular testing program to the player' family members.
This Wednesday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the 16 federal state prime ministers are said to decide about a possible restart of league action.
The remaining nine rounds of matches will take place behind closed doors.
Players and family members will undergo two tests per week. The association demands from the players' families to increase their efforts of self-isolation.
Breel Embolo (Front, L) of Monchengladbach vies with Ellyes Skhiri of Cologne during a German Bundesliga match held behind closed doors due to the COVID-19 outbreak in Monchengladbach, Germany on March 11, 2020. (Xinhua/Ulrich Hufnagel)
Several clubs, such as RB Leipzig, announced a team quarantine for a period of 7 to 10 days as the first step to finish the 2019/2020 season.
Following the first test-cycle of all 18 Bundesliga clubs, 14 reported entirely negative results. Three sides, such as Borussia Moenchengladbach, Leipzig, and the FC Augsburg, didn't report test results. Only FC Cologne revealed three positive tests.
According to reports, two players and a staff member had been tested positive and were sent into home quarantine. This Monday, the second round of tests are scheduled.
Most clubs plan to return to full team-training this week. Until now, only training in small groups was allowed.
Team-training is said to be a crucial point in case of further positive tests. So far, it seemed part of the deal to put the entire team under a 14-day extended quarantine.
The Cologne club said to only isolate the positively tested persons has found the approval of local health authorities. The club said the strategy of regular testing is allowing individual solutions for every tested case.
Players of Monchengladbach celebrate after scoring during a German Bundesliga match hosting FC Cologne in Monchengladbach, Germany on March 11, 2020. Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the match was held behind closed doors for the first time in Bundesliga history. (Xinhua/Ulrich Hufnagel)
Other squad members and staff haven't been direct contacts of the positive tested the club claims. One player admitted having had contact with one of the cases.
It remains uncertain if the concept of individual solutions can be maintained when regular team-training starts again and games take place as the number of so-called direct contacts is going to increase.
Before the clubs can return to team training, health authorities must give their approval. Leipzig and other clubs claim to have received "positive signals" after talks.
Critics say to only isolate positive tested is not the right way and hasn't been part of the concept that caused mostly approval by politicians.
Professor Dr. Tim Meyer, head of the league's corona task force, admitted the susceptibility of the implemented system.
"A large number of positive tests can endanger the system," the medic said, adding: "It requires a great amount of discipline of all involved."
Meyer said 2000 people had been tested in the first round. "We can't exclude getting further positive results; we didn't expect to get none."
To minimize the risk, only players are allowed to attend the team training that has been tested negative twice in advance. "It is an illusion to expect complete security, but that hasn't been a realistic goal," Meyer commented.
Germany's home secretary Horst Seehofer said the entire team has to be sent into quarantine in case of a positive test. Seehofer renewed his point to support a season restart based on the submitted concept.  
■