URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/30/c_139021749.htm
ID : XINH2020043000126

Date : 2020-04-30 21:21:23
Title : Chinese experts share anti-epidemic knowledge with overseas Chinese in Kuwait
Ariticle : 
Photo taken, on April 30, 2020 shows a video workshop held for the Chinese community at the Chinese embassy in Kuwait City, Kuwait.
 (Xinhua/Nie Yunpeng)
Chinese medical experts share knowledge on COVID-19 prevention and control with the Chinese community in Kuwait via a video workshop.
KUWAIT CITY, April 30 (Xinhua) -- Chinese medical experts on Thursday shared the prevention and control knowledge on the COVID-19 pandemic with the Chinese community in Kuwait via a video workshop.
The seminar, organized by the Chinese Embassy in Kuwait, was attended by more than 1,000 overseas Chinese in Kuwait, including Chinese students and employees of the Chinese companies.
The experts gave a detailed introduction to the transmission route of the coronavirus, the dos and don'ts for prevention and control, and treatment through traditional Chinese medicine.
Chinese Ambassador to Kuwait Li Minggang said that the Chinese Embassy attaches great importance to the health of overseas Chinese in Kuwait and spares no efforts to provide them with full support.
"The embassy will continue maintaining close communication with the Kuwaiti side and providing efficient and comprehensive information services for overseas Chinese," Li noted.
Photo taken, on April 30, 2020 shows a video workshop held for the Chinese community at the Chinese embassy in Kuwait City, Kuwait. (Xinhua/Nie Yunpeng)
Ruan Yuesheng, deputy director-general of the Health Commission of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and head of the medical team, told Xinhua that, during the past two days, the Chinese experts visited the Kuwaiti Ministry of Health, medical and relevant institutions and exchanged with the Kuwaiti side Chinese anti-epidemic experiences.
"Kuwaiti experts are very interested in China's anti-epidemic experience," he said.
The Chinese medical experts arrived in Kuwait on Monday night to help the Arab country fight coronavirus.
The eight medical experts specialize in areas including virus testing, infectious disease, respiratory disease, intensive care, and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).  
■