URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/29/c_139018449.htm
ID : XINH2020042900096

Date : 2020-04-29 19:06:35
Title : Chinese community, medical team in Senegal contribute to fight against COVID-19
Ariticle : 
Photo shows the second batch of medical aids offered by the Chinese government to Senegal in Dakar, Senegal, April 22, 2020. (Xinhua/Eddy Peters)
China stands firm with Senegal in its efforts to contain COVID-19 by providing the much-needed help to the West African nation. "
COVID-19 is a challenge for all, and people have to fight together."
DAKAR, April 29 (Xinhua) -- The outbreak of COVID-19 in Senegal, with the increasing number of confirmed cases in the past two months, has greatly worried the country. In the fight against COVID-19, Chinese medical mission and Chinese community based in Senegal have spared no efforts to help the West African country.
Recently, during the reception ceremony of the second batch of medical aids offered by Chinese government to Senegal, Senegalese health minister Abdoulaye Diouf Sarr, on behalf of Senegalese President Macky Sall and Senegalese government, thanked China for the assistance and solidarity it has offered during Senegal's fight against COVID-19.
Since the very beginning of the pandemic in Senegal, Chinese-aided projects in Senegal have been playing an important role in supporting the efforts of Senegalese government to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.
The Children Hospital of Diamniadio, constructed by Jiangsu Provincial Construction Group in 2012, was designated in March by Senegalese government as an isolation center for suspected cases.
"We actively cooperate with Senegalese government and finished the adjustment of the internal facilities of the hospital and the transformation of the isolation area," Gong Zhen, a project manager, told Xinhua.
The headquarters of Gong's company also donated supplies worth some 130 million Francs CFA (about 210,000 U.S. dollars).
As requested by Senegalese health ministry, about 100 beds were added to the hospital to enlarge the capacity of receiving suspected COVID-19 cases.
The 18th Chinese medical mission also provided its assistance to local health authorities.
Right after the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported on March 2 in Senegal, the Chinese medical team immediately shared China's anti-virus experience with Pikine National Hospital in the suburbs of Dakar, Senegal's capital city.
The second batch of medical aids offered by the Chinese government is pictured at Blaise Diagne International Airport in Dakar, Senegal, April 20, 2020. (Xinhua/Eddy Peters)
The chief of the medical mission, Xu Wensheng, together with his respiratory physician Lai Deyi, also submitted detailed suggestions to the board of Pikine National Hospital to strengthen screening of suspected COVID-19 patients.
According to the president of board of Pikine National Hospital, Amadou Niasse, the hospital's screening and prevention measures for COVID-19 suspect cases are made based on the suggestions of the Chinese medical mission, including a well-ventilated waiting area and a separate isolation tent.
Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chinese medical mission has been carrying out their daily routine consultations for Senegalese patients.
In his daily work, acupuncture physiotherapist Chen Li, shared with his Senegalese counterparts and patients how traditional Chinese medicine could help treat COVID-19.
Apart from sharing experience, the Chinese medical mission also donated a batch of medical supplies, medicine and equipments to Senegalese government as part of the bilateral cooperation in the health sector.
The Chinese community living in Senegal also donated medical materials and even organized a fundraising event to support Senegal.
Some Chinese companies and local Chinese businesses have contributed about 170 million Francs CFA to different programs launched by the government.
Hunan Provincial Construction Group, which constructed Senegal's National Wrestling Arena, has donated about 20,000 surgical masks. Twyford Ceramic, inaugurated last year by Senegalese President Macky Sall, also donated masks and disinfectant wipes.
Manager of Twyford Ceramic Zheng Mingzao told Xinhua COVID-19 is a challenge for all, and people have to fight together. "We don't see us as a typical Chinese company. When we invest in Senegal, we choose to be a Senegalese company as well," he added.
"This (donation) reflects China's friendship and solidarity to our country," Senegalese health minister Sarr said, adding Senegal, co-chair of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), is with China in the fight against COVID-19. 
■