URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/29/c_139018115.htm
ID : XINH2020042900073

Date : 2020-04-29 16:16:04
Title : China's men's national football team unveils new roster with three naturalized players
Ariticle : 
Players of the Chinese men's soccer team attend a training in Guangzhou, south China's Guangdong Province, Sept. 2, 2019. The Chinese men's soccer team is preparing for the upcoming 2022 World Cup qualifiers held in Maldives on Sept. 10. (Xinhua/Deng Hua)
China's men's national football team announced a 27-man roster.
BEIJING, April 29 (Xinhua) -- China's men's national football team announced a 27-man roster here on Wednesday for a training camp set in Shanghai in May, with three naturalized players included in the list for the first time in the team's history.
Head coach of the Chinese men's soccer team Marcello Lippi (C) talks to his team during a training in Guangzhou, south China's Guangdong Province, Sept. 2, 2019. The Chinese men's soccer team is preparing for the upcoming 2022 World Cup qualifiers held in Maldives on Sept. 10. (Xinhua/Deng Hua)
The Brazilian-born striker Aloisio Goncalves, whose Chinese name is Luo Guofu, joins his Guangzhou Evergrande teammate Ai Kesen and Beijing Guoan midfielder Li Ke to become the third naturalized player to wear Team Dragon's jersey.
The 31-year-old Luo, who was the top scorer in the Chinese Super League in 2015, has played in China since 2014, and is eligible to play for the country after meeting FIFA's five-year residency requirement.
RCD Espanyol's Wu Lei (R) shoots during a Spanish league match between RCD Espanyol and Athletico Madrid in Barcelona, Spain on March 1, 2020. (Photo by Joan Gosa/Xinhua)
Elsewhere, Chinese star forward Wu Lei, La Liga's Espanol player who tested positive for COVID-19 in Spain in March, has not been called up by the national team.
Head coach of the Chinese men's football team Li Tie attends a training session in Foshan, south China's Guangdong Province, Jan. 20, 2020. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
Team China head coach Li Tie and his players will assemble on May 10 in Shanghai for a 18-day training camp to prepare for the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, which have been postponed to at least October this year.
The 27-man roster is as follows:
Goalkeepers: Yan Junling (Shanghai SIPG), Wang Dalei (Shandong Luneng), Liu Dianzuo (Guangzhou Evergrande);
Defenders: Zhang Linpeng (Guangzhou Evergrande), Yu Dabao (Beijing Guoan), Li Lei (Beijing Guoan), Yang Fan (Beijing Guoan), Wang Shenchao (Shanghai SIPG), Li Ang (Jiangsu Suning), Ming Tian(Wuhan Zall), Jiang Zhipeng (Hebei China Fortune), Zhu Chenjie (Shanghai Shenhua);
Midfielders: Zhang Xizhe (Beijing Guoan), Li Ke (Beijing Guoan), Chi Zhongguo (Beijing Guoan), Wu Xi (Jiangsu Suning), Hao Junmin (Shandong Luneng), Liu Binbin (Shandong Luneng), Jin Jingdao (Shandong Luneng), Liu Yun(Wuhan Zall), Tang Miao (Guangzhou R&F);
Forwards: Ai Kesen (Guangzhou Evergrande), Luo Guofu (Guangzhou Evergrande), Wei Shihao (Guangzhou Evergrande), Dong Xuesheng (Hebei China Fortune), Tan Long (Changchun Yatai), Yang Xu (Tianjin Tianhai).  
■