URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/03/c_139028217.htm
ID : XINH2020050400004

Date : 2020-05-03 23:36:23
Title : Interview: Honeywell optimistic about prospects of China's economic recovery
Ariticle : 
Aerial photo taken on Sept. 26, 2019 shows a light show at Lujiazui area in Pudong District of east China's Shanghai. (Xinhua/Ren Long)
The Honeywell senior executive, who has lived in China for more than 20 years, said impressive changes have taken place in the Chinese market.
NEW YORK, May 3 (Xinhua) -- Honeywell is optimistic about the prospects of economic recovery in China as the country strives to reboot its paused business, a key executive at the company has said.
"Following the government's rules and regulations, and thanks to the government's support, Honeywell's 21 plants across China have fully resumed manufacturing and are serving customers in China and abroad," Shane Tedjarati, president of Honeywell Global High Growth Regions, told Xinhua in a recent written interview.
"China has become Honeywell's largest single country market outside the United States. With our China sites now fully operational, we are focused on supporting our Chinese customers," he said.
The train G1005 leaves for Shenzhen North Station after a stop at Guangzhou South Railway Station in Guangzhou, south China's Guangdong Province, April 8, 2020. (Xinhua/Lu Ye)
Tedjarati said the COVID-19 crisis, which has presented the world with tough business and societal challenges, demonstrated the importance of digital technologies.
"China's digital economy has undergone rapid changes from COVID-19, and we believe that our software-industrial technologies will play a role in helping adapt to these changes," said the senior executive, adding the company remains committed to enhancing collaboration with the Chinese partners.
Honeywell has registered a wholly-owned subsidiary Huosheng Industrial Technology Co. Ltd. in Wuhan as its headquarters for the company's mass-mid segment business in China, according to the company.
 People work at a construction site of a utility tunnel in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, April 30, 2020. The project of utility tunnel here, a passage built to carry utility lines, has resumed construction since the end of March. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)
"As a key city in central China, Wuhan is strategically located, has an important industrial base, and serves as a technology and research hub in the country," noted Tedjarati, adding the company would like to enhance its cooperation with Wuhan, promote innovative technologies and provide better coverage in central and west China.
Currently, Honeywell has over 50 wholly owned enterprises and joint ventures in more than 30 cities across China, including 21 plants, with about 11,000 employees, among which 20 percent are technologists.
In China, the company's growth "has fully aligned with China's macro trends, like the digital economy and beautiful China," said Tedjarati.
The senior executive, who has lived in China for more than 20 years, said impressive changes have taken place in the China market.
Train D9301 departs for the Hankou Railway Station to pick up passengers in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, April 8, 2020. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)
"In recent years, China has undergone an amazing digital revolution that is transforming the way we live and work with exciting new products that connect us and incorporate software and data in new ways," Tedjarati said.
"The rise of China's outstanding private enterprises is another profound change that we have felt," which "will be beneficial to both China's consumers and China's innovation," he added.  
■