URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/01/c_139022947.htm
ID : XINH2020050100042

Date : 2020-05-01 09:57:22
Title : COVID-19 watch, May 1: Italy records highest daily coronavirus recoveries
Ariticle : 
A Police officer checks information of passengers in Rome, Italy, April 30, 2020. (Xinhua/Cheng Tingting)
- Italy records highest daily coronavirus recoveries
- NYC subway's overnight service to be suspended for disinfection
- Pakistan's lower house chief tests positive
- New COVID-19 transmission model shows social distancing worked in Chinese cities
BEIJING, May 1 (Xinhua) -- The following are the updates on the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
ROME -- Italy on Thursday recorded the highest daily number of coronavirus recoveries since the emergency started in late February, the country's Civil Protection Department said.
"Today we recorded the highest number of recoveries since the beginning of the emergency, with 4,693 new recoveries compared to yesterday, bringing the total to 75,945 recoveries," Civil Protection Department Chief Angelo Borrelli told a televised press conference.
- - - -
WASHINGTON -- A new COVID-19 transmission model, based on contact survey data from nearly 1,200 people in the Chinese cities of Wuhan and Shanghai, suggests that strict social distancing measures were sufficient to curtail the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus causes COVID-19, according to a paper published on Science magazine Wednesday.
A visitor receives body temperature check at the entrance of Shanghai Museum in east China's Shanghai Municipality, March 13, 2020. (Xinhua/Ren Long)
ISLAMABAD -- Speaker of Pakistan's National Assembly Asad Qaiser confirmed late on Thursday night that he had tested positive for the COVID-19 and quarantined himself at his house after the test result.
- - - -
BEIJING -- Chinese health authority said Friday that it received reports of 12 new confirmed COVID-19 cases on the Chinese mainland Thursday, of which six were imported.
The other six new cases were domestically transmitted, including five in Heilongjiang Province and one in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, the National Health Commission said in a daily report.
An empty train stops at a Times Square subway station in New York, the United States, March 26, 2020. (Photo by Michael Nagle/Xinhua)
NEW YORK -- New York City subways, which usually operate 24/7, will be shut down every night from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. to allow trains to be disinfected, New York state Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Thursday.
Starting on May 6, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), which runs the city's subway system, will clean all train cars every 24 hours. The cars have been cleaned every 72 hours since the COVID-19 outbreak erupted here.
- - - -
BRUSSELS -- A slew of bleak new figures, unveiled Thursday by the European Union (EU) and some major nations, underscored the economic pain inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which added more pressure to European governments to ease restrictive measures.
The World Health Organization's (WHO) Europe office, however, warned on Thursday that the European region "remains very much in the grip of this pandemic."
A sign reminding people to keep social distance is seen on the door of a supermarket in Geneva, Switzerland, on April 14, 2020. (Xinhua/Nie Xiaoyang)
BRASILIA -- Brazil registered 7,218 new cases of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the Ministry of Health reported on Thursday, showing that the pandemic contagion curve in the country has accelerated in recent days.
According to data on the country's official COVID-19 platform, confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus rose from 78,162 on Wednesday to 85,380 on Thursday, an increase of 9 percent.
- - - -
GENEVA -- Switzerland will provide 400 million CHF (414 million U.S. dollars) to international organizations in support of the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the Swiss Federal Council announced on Thursday.
In a media statement issued Thursday, the Swiss Federal Council said the country is responding to urgent appeals for financial support from the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the G20 and other organizations to help maintain their ability to address the pandemic.  
■