URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/02/c_139024416.htm
ID : XINH2020050200009

Date : 2020-05-02 01:15:20
Title : Hungary and China support each other in fighting coronavirus: official
Ariticle : 
A staff member checks the medical supplies loaded on a China-Europe freight train at Jinan South Railway Station in Jinan, east China's Shandong Province, April 26, 2020. (Xinhua/Wang Kai)
Hungary was among the first countries that sent medical supplies to China to help fight the novel coronavirus, Hungary's State Secretary for International Communications Zoltan Kovacs has said.
After the pandemic hit Hungary, the Chinese government and numerous private actors sent donations to Budapest, reflecting the "friendly and constructive" relations between the two countries at all levels, said the Hungarian official.
BUDAPEST, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Hungary and China have supported each other in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Hungary's State Secretary for International Communications Zoltan Kovacs has said.
In a recent written interview with Xinhua, Kovacs said that Hungary was among the first countries that sent medical supplies to China to help fight the novel coronavirus.
After the pandemic hit Hungary, the Chinese government and numerous private actors sent donations to Budapest, reflecting the "friendly and constructive" relations between the two countries at all levels, said the Hungarian official.
Tamas Menczer (R), state secretary from the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and Chinese Ambassador to Hungary Duan Jielong show a list of medical supplies donated by the Chinese government at the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport in Budapest, Hungary, on April 29, 2020.(Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
"As a result of the close cooperation between the two governments, an air bridge was established between Hungary and China that allows the unimpeded flow of medical equipment needed to combat the virus successfully," said Kovacs.
Commenting on China's efforts in fighting the COVID-19, the Hungarian official said that the Chinese government had taken strict quarantine measures, and the situation in China was improving steadily. Meanwhile, Chinese experts shared their experiences and good practices on COVID-19 prevention, and Chinese factories provided the supply of medical equipment and tools to the world.
Cargo containers unloaded from the China-Europe freight train are seen at the BILK logistics centre in Budapest, Hungary, on April 27, 2020. 
(Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
A batch of medical supplies donated by China arrived at the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport on Wednesday to help fight the novel coronavirus. The medical supplies included testing kits, N95 masks, surgical masks and protective garments.
Several Chinese companies have also donated medical supplies to Hungary. For example, China Railway Group Limited (CREC), a listed Chinese construction company,  and Chinese automaker BYD, had donated 300,000 surgical masks and 100,000 face masks to Hungary, respectively.
Medical supplies donated by the Chinese government are seen at the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport in Budapest, Hungary, on April 29, 2020. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
■