URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/30/c_139021822.htm
ID : XINH2020050100010

Date : 2020-04-30 22:03:34
Title : New York marathon champ Jepkosgei ready for competition to resume
Ariticle : 
Gold medalist Ethiopia's Netsanet Gudeta Kebede (C) poses with silver medalist Joyciline Jepkosgei (L) of Kenya and bronze medalist Kenya's Pauline Kaveke Kamul during the awarding ceremony for women's final of IAAF World Half Marathon Championships in Valencia, Spain on March 24, 2018. (Xinhua/Guo Qiuda)
New York marathon champion Joyciline Jepkosgei will target a better performance to improve her time when competition resumes in the 2020 season.
NAIROBI, April 30 (Xinhua) -- New York marathon champion Joyciline Jepkosgei will target a better performance to improve her time when competition resumes in the 2020 season.
Jepkosgei, who had hopes of returning to the marathon course in London in April, has had to chill at home and venture into farming after the coronavirus pandemic forced the cancellation or postponement of almost all competitions this year.
"I had plans to run in London on April 26, but as you know that event has been pushed back to October 4 and that brings another challenge because I had other plans for that period of the year," Jepkosgei said on Thursday from Iten.
Jopkosgei clocked 2:22:38 in New York, but improving that time is something she is seriously thinking about. "I want to run faster," she said. "I know I can improve on my time."
"However, the cancellations of the London race hit me hard because I had done well in training knowing the caliber of opponents to expect. But the choice was not mine to cancel, what they did was in good faith and for the good of everyone," she added.
Now Jepkosgei has to find some inspiration to help her go through the period where there is no competition and training is limited.
"The challenge is to maintain my physiotherapy schedules, eating healthy foods and preventing any stress at this point. To remain healthy, I have chosen to deny myself several tasty foods because I have to always check my diet," she added. 
■