URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-05/02/c_139024459.htm
ID : XINH2020050200006

Date : 2020-05-02 01:48:22
Title : Chinese experts help Kuwait fight COVID-19
Ariticle : 
A Chinese medical expert team holds meeting with Kuwaiti experts from medical sectors in Mubarak Al-Kabeer Governorate, Kuwait, April 29, 2020. 
(Xinhua)
"We believe that Kuwait will achieve very good results in fighting against coronavirus," says the head of a Chinese expert team sent by the Chinese government to Kuwait to help combat COVID-19.
KUWAIT CITY, May 1 (Xinhua) -- "We come here to share China's anti-epidemic experiences with Kuwaiti side. We hope to help Kuwaiti people overcome the disease as soon as possible," said Ruan Yuesheng, head of a Chinese expert team in Kuwait.
The Chinese team, sent by the the Chinese government to help fight COVID-19, arrived in Kuwait on Monday night.
The eight medical experts specialize in areas including virus testing, infectious disease, respiratory disease, intensive care, and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).
During the past days, the experts held meetings with officials of Kuwait Ministry of Health and experts from medical sectors, during which two sides shared experiences in prevention and control, testing, treatment and quarantine.
A Chinese medical expert team visits a COVID-19 drive-thru testing center in Farwaniya Governorate, Kuwait, April 28, 2020. 
(Xinhua)
"In the past days, we have visited the Ministry of Health and some medical institutions, and exchanged in-depth experiences with Kuwaiti experts in public health," said Ruan.
The team has also brought some suggestions to the Kuwaiti side, he told Xinhua, adding that Kuwaiti experts are very interested in China's anti-epidemic experiences.
During the visit, Kuwaiti experts expressed hope to learn from useful experiences and practices of China in combating the coronavirus.
The team has also visited field medical sites related to combating the coronavirus, including epidemic testing center. The Chinese side lauded Kuwait's measures to curb the coronavirus spread.
A Chinese medical expert team visits a home-quarantine monitoring center in Hawalli Governorate, Kuwait, April 29, 2020. 
(Xinhua)
"We have seen that the Kuwaiti government attaches great importance to the measures for preventing and controlling the pandemic while preparing properly for testing, treatment, quarantine management and medical protection supplies," Ruan noted.
He stressed his team can also learn from good practices by the Kuwaiti side, "for example the management of people who returned from abroad, and the establishment of temporary testing centers ... such practices are very innovative and creative and worth learning from."
Meanwhile, the experts also shared anti-epidemic knowledge with overseas Chinese in Kuwait at a video workshop.
At the workshop, the experts gave a detailed introduction to the transmission route of the coronavirus, the dos and don'ts for prevention and control, and TCM treatment.
Moreover, the Chinese experts expressed confidence that Kuwait will be able to overcome the disease.
A Chinese medical expert team holds meeting with officials of Kuwait Ministry of Health in Capital Governorate, Kuwait, April 28, 2020. 
(Xinhua)
"We believe that Kuwait will achieve very good results in fighting against coronavirus," Ruan said.
Speaking upon the experts' arrival in Kuwait, Chinese Ambassador to Kuwait Li Minggang said that China and Kuwait have always been supporting each other and maintaining close exchanges in combating the disease, showing the strategic partnership between the two countries.
The Chinese government's decision to send a medical team to Kuwait demonstrates the determination of both countries to help each other and overcome difficulties, Li noted.
Meeting with the team, the Kuwaiti officials expressed gratitude to the Chinese experts with frontline expertise and experience for their help.
Fawaz Al-Rifai, assistant undersecretary of the Kuwaiti Ministry of Health for supporting medical services, said that Kuwait is looking forward to the arrival of Chinese experts.
"When the world suffers from the coronavirus pandemic, China extends its helping hands to countries in the world," he said.  
■