URL : http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-04/30/c_139018954.htm
ID : XINH2020043000016

Date : 2020-04-30 00:48:28
Title : Feature: Tradition of anonymously buying food for needy picks up steam in Italy amid pandemic
Ariticle : 
A man wearing a face mask walks in Milan, Italy, on April 18, 2020. (Xinhua)
"The idea of helping someone out anonymously is a beautiful way of letting people who need help to know they are not alone and for those who can afford it to show they are thinking beyond themselves and their families."
ROME, April 29 (Xinhua) -- The coronavirus pandemic has at least temporarily forced 2 million Italian businesses to close. Despite the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19, the habit of helping the less fortunate by paying for food has become more common in Italy.
The Ministry of Labor said that only 50 percent of Italians are fully employed under the lockdown. By some estimates, half of Italy's workers are without their regular source of income for weeks into the country's national lockdown. The International Monetary Fund said recently that Italy's GDP will fall 9.1 percent due to the coronavirus pandemic this year.
Yet, according to Arianna Montanari, a sociologist at Rome's La Sapienza University, difficult circumstances can bring out the best in Italians.
The growing tradition of "spesa sospesa" -- Italian for "deferred shopping" -- is an example of that. The phenomenon involves shoppers voluntarily adding a few extra euros to their bill at checkout, or leaving behind some non-perishable groceries for the benefit of those who can't afford to buy their own food.
People wearing face masks walk on a street in Milan, Italy, on April 18, 2020. (Xinhua)
Montanari told Xinhua that Italians have learned to help each other out for generations. "The 'spesa sospesa' is a great example of that."
The roots of the tradition date back more than a century, to the tradition of the "caffe sospeso" that emerged in working-class neighborhoods of the southern Italian city of Naples. People who had a stroke of good fortune would drink one coffee but pay for two, which meant that someone down on their luck could drink for free.
Now, the habit of helping the less fortunate by paying for food has become more common.
"It would happen occasionally in the past. But since the coronavirus crisis, it is becoming far more common," Rita Seccia, a veteran cashier at Conad, a supermarket in the Roman neighborhood of Trastevere, said in an interview. "People just buy a few extra non-perishable products and set them apart. Every morning, a homeless comes by to collect the food to help feed people in the shelter."
A shop selling children's products reopens in Rome, Italy, April 15, 2020. (Photo by Alberto Lingria/Xinhua)
In other situations, shoppers can select to add extra to their bill to help fund similar initiatives for the homeless or those who cannot afford to shop. In many parts of Italy, shoppers simply leave the food out on public benches for those in need.
Because of the informal nature of the "spesa sospesa" trend, there is no way to accurately calculate how many people have benefited or how much food has been given away. But Carrefour, another supermarket chain, has estimated an initiative of asking shoppers to add a few extra euros to their bills has helped provide at least 1.5 million meals nationally.
Coldiretti, the main agriculture industry association, estimated that a similar program it helped create provided more than 800,000 meals in the hard-hit northern city of Bergamo alone. A report carried by the Italian state television network RAI estimated that the "spesa sospesa" practice has provided "millions of meals" across the country.
A woman wearing a face mask works at a reopened children's book shop in Rome, Italy, April 20, 2020. (Photo by Alberto Lingria/Xinhua)
"We started promoting this kind of activity three years ago, but it wasn't until the coronavirus outbreak that it started to become common," said Giuseppe Cutolo, president of the Shalom Association in the Torre Del Greco neighborhood of Naples, where the "caffe sospeso" tradition was born a century ago.
"The idea of helping someone out anonymously is a beautiful way of letting people who need help to know they are not alone and for those who can afford it to show they are thinking beyond themselves and their families," Cutolo told Xinhua.  
■