URL : https://dantri.com.vn/suc-khoe/benh-nhan-ngoai-quoc-va-nhung-thu-thach-dac-biet-voi-luc-luong-tuyen-dau-20200428232741542.htm
ID : DANT2020042900003

Date : Wednesday, April 29, 2020 - 06:14
Title : Foreign patients and special challenges with frontline forces
Ariticle : 


Foreign patients and special challenges with frontline forces


The Central Tropical Hospital started accepting the first Covid-19 patients on January 30, 2020 (6th Lunar New Year). In nearly 3 months of fighting against the epidemic, white-shirted soldiers on the frontline of this epidemic have treated nearly 150 positive patients, screening nearly 2,500 suspected subjects.

According to the sharing of Dr. Nguyen Trung, Head of Emergency Department, Central Tropical Hospital, because of the direct care and treatment for Covid-19 patients, health workers are also in close contact and have to isolate yourself at the Hospital. Therefore, there are many doctors and doctors who have not come home since the 6th of Tet.



Nursing Bui Thi Lan Anh, Emergency Department, Central Tropical Hospital



For the nurse Bui Thi Lan Anh, Emergency Department, Central Tropical Hospital, for 7 years, she has faced many dangerous epidemics such as measles, dengue fever, influenza A ... this is the first time. The fairy has been away so long. In addition to being on duty and staying at the Hospital for months, the Covid-19 epidemic also brought other new challenges, which the nurse shared, facing, adapting and seeking ways. overcoming them helped her and her colleagues grow a lot.

Challenges stem from cultural and linguistic barriers

&quot;In the mission against Covid-19, in terms of professional work, one of the newest challenges for us as a nursing force is caring for foreign patients&quot; - Lan Anh Nursing share.


In fact, during this time working at the Central Tropical Hospital, this female nurse also met cases of foreign patients. However, due to the special nature of the Covid-19 epidemic, the task of taking care of foreign cases this time raises many unpredictable complex issues.

Lan Anh nurse analyzed: “Since the first phase of the epidemic so far, the Emergency Department has received and treated about 7-8 cases of Covid-19 foreigners. &quot;Because most patients coming to Vietnam are on vacation, having to go to a hospital for isolation will naturally make them feel uncomfortable.&quot;



Because most patients coming to Vietnam are traveling, having to go to hospital for isolation will naturally make people feel uncomfortable.



Due to this mentality, there are a number of foreign patients, often mild-symptomatic cases, who constantly wonder why they have suddenly been placed in Isolation Hospital. When the doctors directly explained that they had Covid-19, they needed to isolate treatment, which would be good for themselves and avoid spread to the community, most of the patients cooperated. However, there are also some exceptions.

The nurse said: “There is one foreign patient who, although explained by the doctors about the dangers of the disease, did not cooperate. On the first day of admission, this patient did not accept our injection. Taking medication, even though everyone was prepared a new cup of water, the patient still thought that the cup was dirty and asked for another. Actually both the doctors and nurses have struggled to convince and explain such cases. ”



According to Lan Anh nurse, there are cases where foreign patients who were explained by the doctors about the dangers of the disease, did not cooperate. On the first day of admission, this patient did not allow nurses to give injections.



Besides, the difference in culinary culture is also an issue that arises when treating and caring for foreign patients. According to the nurse&#39;s share, in fact, besides Vietnamese dishes, the hospital has prepared separate meals for foreigners, with dishes such as sandwiches, sausages, pasta ... However , meeting the tastes of all foreign patients from the beginning is not easy.

She said: “In the first days, the dishes we prepared for foreign patients were not suitable for our taste. As the person who brought the food directly to each patient, we talked and listened to their feedback about the food, then reported it back to the Nutrition Department to reduce it accordingly. Thanks to that, after only a few days, foreign patients were no longer complaining about the food that the hospital had prepared. Even, many patients after a while turned to choosing both Vietnamese dishes, among which pho and braised meat are the two most popular names ”.

Special English class for white coat warriors

Through the care process for foreign patients, Lan Anh nurse realized that the difference in language is one of the biggest barriers between medical staff and patients, especially with nursing forces who directly take care of and carry out medicine orders.



Language differences are one of the biggest barriers between health workers and patients.



She shared: “In some cases, needing in-depth explanations and advice, between us and patients having difficulty understanding each other. The solution at the time was to combine gestures with transliteration or paper-based software to convey information. However, my colleagues and I all think that improving our ability to communicate in English will be the best solution.

So every night, after the end of working hours, many nurses of the Central Tropical Hospital deduct a period of rest, for tinkering and fostering foreign language knowledge. The method of learning, according to Lan Anh&#39;s nurse, is also very practical and urgently in the spirit of &quot;fighting against epidemics like fighting against the enemy&quot;: &quot;Based on the daily tasks assigned, we will go online to find words, ways to ask questions that I often have to use to communicate with patients such as: how to inquire about the detailed health situation, how to talk about medical procedures. My colleagues and I also often set up situations to talk in English to improve communication. ”


Examining the English subject of nurses, no one else is a foreign patient being treated. The fact that these foreigners are increasingly receptive to the information conveyed, the communication is less dependent on the application of transliteration and gestures than the most genuine evidence of Lan Anh&#39;s effort to improve knowledge. as well as his colleagues.



Being able to confidently communicate with foreign patients has helped the doctors and doctors perform their duties better.



“Being able to communicate confidently with foreign patients has helped us perform our duties better, and at the same time better understand their thoughts and aspirations. Indeed, during this time, I feel that I am much more mature and perfect ”.

Special feelings from the words of thanks across borders

Caring for foreign patients, despite the difficulties of medical staff, when cultural and linguistic barriers are removed, they bring back memories and feelings. Special contact for forces on the frontline against epidemics.


A choking thank you from the British Covid-19 patient who was discharged from the hospital


&quot;Vietnamese doctors and doctors were amazing, they saved my life,&quot; said Ms. Shan, a British Covid-19 patient on the day of discharge. Ms. Shan and her husband are both elderly people and have been progressing after being hospitalized. Rescued from death and receiving the devoted care of people in a remote country, Shan could not hide her tears, expressing her appreciation to the white-shirted warriors. .


Ms. Shan&#39;s story is one of the many words of gratitude and emotionally shared by foreign patients who donated Vietnamese doctors and doctors on the day they were discharged from the hospital.

On the white blouse side, the affection received from the heart, of people living thousands of miles away, brings special emotions.

“Caring for patients is the duty and obligation of nurses like us. However, when receiving the patient&#39;s thanks, we still have very special feelings, that is joy, happiness and pride in the career that we have chosen ”- Female nurse children laugh and talk.


Minh Nhat




Tag:


COVID-19

Patient

foreign




