URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006908998
ID : GPHN2020050500135

Date : 2020-05-01 04:02:00
Title : Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria; Recent Findings from Barcelona Institute for Global Health Provide New Insights into Malaria (Detection of Protein Aggregation in Live Plasmodium Parasites)
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- Researchers detail new data in Mosquito-Borne Diseases - Malaria. According to news reporting out of Barcelona, Spain, by NewsRx editors, research stated, "The rapid evolution of resistance in the malaria parasite to every single drug developed against it calls for the urgent identification of new molecular targets. Using a stain specific for the detection of intracellular amyloid deposits in live cells we have detected the presence of abundant protein aggregates in blood stages and female gametes cultured , in the blood stages of mice infected by , and in the mosquito stages of the murine malaria species Aggregated proteins could not be detected in early rings, the parasite form that starts the intraerythrocytic cycle."
Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research from Barcelona Institute for Global Health, "A proteomics approach was followed to pinpoint actual aggregating polypeptides in functional blood stages, which resulted in the identification of 369 proteins, with roles particularly enriched in nuclear import-related processes. Five aggregation-prone short peptides selected from this protein pool exhibited different aggregation propensity according to Thioflavin-T fluorescence measurements, and were observed to form amorphous aggregates and amyloid fibrils in transmission electron microscope images. The results presented suggest that generalized protein aggregation might have a functional role in malaria parasites."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Future antimalarial strategies based on the upsetting of the pathogen's proteostasis and therefore affecting multiple gene products could represent the entry to new therapeutic approaches."
For more information on this research see: Detection of Protein Aggregation in Live Plasmodium Parasites. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 2020;():. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy can be contacted at: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA. (American Society for Microbiology - www.asm.org; Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy - aac.asm.org)
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting I. Bouzon-Arnaiz, Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal, Hospital Clinic-Universitat de Barcelona), Rossello 149-153, ES-08036 Barcelona, Spain. Additional authors for this research include A. Biosca, L. Spanos, I. Siden-Kiamos, V. Iglesias, S. Ventura and X. Fernandez-Busquets.
Publisher contact information for the journal Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy is: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Spain, Europe, Malaria, Barcelona, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Protozoan Infections, Mosquito Borne Diseases, Mosquito-Borne Diseases.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC