URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868856
ID : GPHN2020042900102

Date : 2020-04-28 23:00:00
Title : Foodborne Diseases and Conditions - Staphylococcus aureus; Tehran University of Medical Sciences Researchers Focus on Staphylococcus aureus (Prevalence of Staphylococcus Aureus Isolated from Hamburger Samples in Tehran and their Antibiotic Susceptibility…
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Current study results on Staphylococcus aureus have been published. According to news reporting from Tehran University of Medical Sciences by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "Introduction:Staphylococcal food poisoning is one of the most common food-borne diseases. The antibiotic resistance of Staphylococcus aureus has been reported globally."
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from Tehran University of Medical Sciences: "Today, strains of Staphylococcus aureus in food have become a problem in clinical infections and are considerde as a serious public health concern. A total of 100 samples were tested in the laboratory; including 75 handmade and 25 industrial hamburger samples. The Staphylococcus aureus samples were isolated and identified according to the National Iranian Standard No. 6806-3. Antibiotic resistance was determined by disk diffusion method and minimum inhibitory concentration was performed. In this study, the antibiotics penicillin, ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, clindamycin, chloramphenicol, cefoxitin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, tetracycline, gentamicin, vancomycin, and oxacillin were used. Of 100 analyzed hamburger samples, 39 samples were infected with Staphylococcus aureus (23 industrial and 16 handmade samples). All isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (100%) were susceptible to gentamicin and vancomycin antibiotics."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Due to the importance of Staphylococcus aureus, as the supergene antigen and its role in causing food poisoning, contamination of foodstuffs with Staphylococcus aureus can threaten the consumers' health."
For more information on this research see: Prevalence of Staphylococcus Aureus Isolated from Hamburger Samples in Tehran and their Antibiotic Susceptibility. Toloo-e-behdasht, 2019,18(4):12-23. (Toloo-e-behdasht - http://tbj.ssu.ac.ir/index.php?slc_lang=en&sid=1). The publisher for Toloo-e-behdasht is Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences.
Our news editors report that more information may be obtained by contacting Neguin Momtaz, Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
Keywords for this news article include: Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Poisoning, Bacillales, Food Poison, Food Safety, Staphylococcaceae, Gram-Positive Cocci, Health and Medicine, Staphylococcus aureus, Gram-Positive Bacteria, Endospore-Forming Bacteria, Foodborne Diseases and Conditions, Gram-Positive Endospore-Forming Rods.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC