URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868758
ID : GPHN2020042900159

Date : 2020-04-28 22:52:00
Title : Parasitic Diseases and Conditions - Toxoplasma gondii; Research Results from U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Update Knowledge of Toxoplasma gondii (Distribution of Toxoplasma gondii Tissue Cysts in Shoulder Muscles of Naturally Infected Goats and L…
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Data detailed on Parasitic Diseases and Conditions - Toxoplasma gondii have been presented. According to news reporting from Beltsville, Maryland, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "Toxoplasmosis has been recognized as a major public health problem worldwide. The consumption of uncooked/undercooked meat infected with Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) tissue cysts is one of the main sources for the transmission of this parasite."
The news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), "Although sheep, goats, and pigs are commonly infected with T. gondii, there is little information concerning the distribution of T. gondii tissue cysts in naturally infected meat. In this study, we investigated the distribution of viable T. gondii tissue cysts in shoulder muscles of naturally infected lambs and goats. Hearts and shoulders of 46 lambs and 39 goats (total 85 animals) from a local grocery store were tested for T. gondii infection. First, the animals were evaluated for the presence of anti-T. gondii antibodies in heart blood/clot by the modified agglutination test (MAT). A total of 14 out of the 85 animals (7/46 lambs and 7/39 goats) were seropositive. A total of 6 to 12 samples weighting 5g, 10g, and 50g were obtained from shoulder muscles of each seropositive animal and bioassayed in mice. The distribution of viable T. gondii varied according to the size of the sample analyzed, but in general larger sample sizes resulted in higher isolation rates (p <0.05)."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Results of the study revealed uneven distribution of T. gondii in muscle samples of lambs and goats and that even small serving sizes (5 g and 10 g) of meat have the potential for the transmission of T. gondii if consumed raw or under-cooked."
For more information on this research see: Distribution of Toxoplasma gondii Tissue Cysts in Shoulder Muscles of Naturally Infected Goats and Lambs. Journal of Food Protection, 2020;():.
Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting C.K. Cerqueira-Cezar, USA. Dept. of Agriculture (USDA), Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory, Beltsville, MD 20705, United States. Additional authors for this research include S. Rani, F.HA. Murata, O.CH. Kwok, J.P. Dubey and A. Pradhan.
Keywords for this news article include: Maryland, Beltsville, United States, Toxoplasma gondii, North and Central America, Foodborne Diseases and Conditions, Parasitic Diseases and Conditions.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC