URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868786
ID : GPHN2020042900091

Date : 2020-04-28 22:46:00
Title : Bovine Diseases and Conditions - Bovine Tuberculosis; New Bovine Tuberculosis Findings from Animal Health Department Outlined [Risk factors associated to a high Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex seroprevalence in wild boar (Sus scrofa) from a low bovine…
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Fresh data on Bovine Diseases and Conditions - Bovine Tuberculosis are presented in a new report. According to news reporting originating in Bizkaia, Spain, by NewsRx journalists, research stated, "Animal tuberculosis is a worldwide zoonotic disease caused principally by Mycobacterium bovis, a member of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTC). In southern Iberian Peninsula, wild reservoirs such as the wild boar, among other factors, have prevented the eradication of bovine tuberculosis."
Funders for this research include “la Caixa” Foundation, Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Tecnologia Agraria y Alimentaria, Agricultural and Fisheries Department of the Basque Country Government.
The news reporters obtained a quote from the research from Animal Health Department, "However, most of the studies have been focused on south-central Spain, where the prevalence of tuberculosis is high among wild ungulates and cattle herds. In northern regions, where wild boar density and bovine tuberculosis prevalence are lower, fewer studies have been carried out and the role of this species is still under debate. The aim of this study was to describe the temporal and spatial distribution of antibodies against MTC in wild boar from the Basque Country, northern Spain. Sera from 1902 animals were collected between 2010 and 2016. The seroprevalence was determined with an in house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and the search of risk factors was assessed by Generalized Linear Models. Overall, 17% of wild boars (326/1902; 95%CI, [15.5%-18.9%]) showed antibodies against MTC. Risk factors associated with seropositivity were the year and location of sampling, the number of MTC positive cattle, the distance to positive farms and the percentage of shrub cover. Younger age classes were associated with increased antibody titres among seropositive individuals. The seroprevalence detected was higher than those previously reported in neighbouring regions."
According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "Hence, further studies are needed to better understand the role of wild boar in the epidemiology of tuberculosis in low tuberculosis prevalence areas and consequently, its relevance when developing control strategies."
For more information on this research see: Risk factors associated to a high Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex seroprevalence in wild boar (Sus scrofa) from a low bovine tuberculosis prevalence area. Plos One, 2020;15(4):e0231559. (Public Library of Science - www.plos.org; Plos One - www.plosone.org)
Our news correspondents report that additional information may be obtained by contacting V. Alvarez, Animal Health Department, NEIKER-Instituto Vasco de Investigacion y Desarrollo Agrario, Derio, Bizkaia, Spain. Additional authors for this research include L. Varela-Castro, I.A. Sevilla and M. Barral.
Keywords for this news article include: Spain, Europe, Bizkaia, Epidemiology, Mycobacteriaceae, Gram Positive Rods, Bovine Tuberculosis, Risk and Prevention, Mycobacterium Infections, Actinomycetales Infections, Bovine Diseases and Conditions, Gram Positive Asporogenous Rods, Gram Positive Bacterial Infections.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC