URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006906963
ID : GPHN2020050500093

Date : 2020-05-04 00:03:00
Title : The current pandemic in a historical dimension
Ariticle : 
Covid-19 has generated unusual levels of anguish and pessimism in society, in much because of the ways in which information about the virus has spread. It is certainly a global health crisis that requires discipline in the implementation of confinement plans—coupled with the design of the best timely health care protocols—, which does not justify the dissemination of disproportionate, not-rarely alarmist messages.
On the other hand, information on medical advances to drive and narrow the development of the pandemic has not had the best coverage either in the daily media or in official channels, which have reiterated the message — consensual throughout the orb — based on social isolation and the sometimes tacit acceptance that this only serves to slow off contagion and , therefore, avoid saturation of hospital services. In this regard, opinions have increased that have contributed to increased confusion and unease, since it has become said that, because they have not acquired immunity, people who remain isolated will become infected at the end of the quarantine period and activities resume, which will hopelessly lead to an uptick in the epidemic.
This crisis has been defined as the worst health calamity faced by humanity in recent history, promoting the idea that the disease found us without knowledge or elements necessary to prevent its infection and treatment; these are, however, false approaches in the light of a brief historical revision of the twentieth century.
Uncertainty as to the return to normalcy is another cause for burden on the population, and this stems from the non-priority of mathematical analysis of the epidemiological process. All epidemics are exponential functions of time; that is, the number of contagions is a time-dependent variable, in an always exponential relationship. Therefore, the graph of the epidemic is always a smooth curve that rises faster and higher each time, reaching a peak from the one that then declines, also exponentially, to levels close to zero, which represents the time when there are no new contagions. Therefore, if the particular functioning of an epidemic is found, it is possible to predict its time of greatest contagion, the beginning of its exponential decrement phase and its end.
Another important success in this scenario has been the need to routinely detect antibodies in the population. Emphasis has been placed on molecular screening to identify infected people. This procedure is called reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). It is obviously a technology that requires specialized equipment and reagents and professionals trained in molecular biology techniques.
There is another more accessible approach to the detection of infectious diseases: the determination of antibodies in the serum, which has been used for a long time, even before the advent of advances in molecular biology. Everyone with a functional immune system develops specific antibodies against a particular infectious agent, whether through contagion or vaccination; hence serodiagnosis can identify individuals who have acquired immunity. Antibody detection is much cheaper and easier to perform than molecular or viral isolation screening tests, so it can be used in large population segments, whichepidemiologically of enormous importance, in the understanding that a person with antibodies can leave confinement without fear of spreading, because he has immunity, and when a significant segment of the population has antibodies it can be concluded that the epidemic is decreasing. A serodiagnosis program for detecting antibodies against Covid-19 would be a crucial action in accurate epidemiological assessment and in combating uncertainty and discomfort in this crisis, specifically for a sector as vulnerable as the medical body. Of course, it is essential to ensure that doctors and nurses who are in direct contact with infected patients have immunity against the virus.
There is historical evidence that helps to more objectively size this pandemic, far from catastrophic. On the one hand, the world has faced more lethal epidemics; Covid-19, on the other hand, causes a disease that differs little from conditions caused by other respiratory viruses and extensively studied microorganisms, such as Mycoplasma preumoniae. Thus, without undermining the seriousness of the current health crisis and the relevance of isolation measures, it is important to report without obviating the experience of previous decades. Here we can evoke a pandemic that actually had a catastrophic lethality and was caused by the human influenza virus.
The pandemic influenza virus is an RNA microorganism in the family orthomyxovirus and the genus influenza-virus; that is, it is part of a family other than the Covid-19 coronavirus. For more than a century it has been the causal agent of cyclic epidemics presented at intervals of 10 to 15 years, from the first identified pandemic that was called "Spanish influenza of 1918".
Influenza A viruses have the ability of genetic recombination, which produces a much greater variation than mutations. The pig is the crucible in which these recombinations of genes of human, avian and pig origin are carried out. Thus came the A-H1N1 that produced the influenza of 1918 and that had as its initial focus a swine farm from the United States — that is, the Spanish influenza did not sprout in Spain.
Once adapted to humans, the virus moved from the United States to our country. It is thought that it arrived through a Spanish shipping company , hence the name of this influenza, which arrived at various ports in the Gulf of Mexico, including Tampico and Veracruz. The mortality it produced in Mexico and the world was devastating.
In the context of World War I, American troops brought the disease to Europe. German infantry forces are said to have lost their combative capacity because their soldiers were prostrate by the flu. It is a story similar to that that in Tenochtitlán, when the Aztecs lost many warriors to smallpox, brought to the New Continent by the conquerors. The Spanish influenza pandemic of 1918 caused the deaths of 20 million people, 100 times more than the mortality so far recorded by Covid-19, to which it should be added that the human population is now much higher.
Comparatively, despite the enormous spread of the flu pandemic 2009-2010 produced by A-H1N1/2009, the influenza pandemic was estimated at more than 700 million contagions, with mortality estimated to be less than 7%. One in 1918 and one in 2009, the abysmal difference between the two pandemics in lethality is largely explained as a result of a hundred years of medical research. Today there are other spectacular advances in molecular biology and influenza prevention, vaccines are developed that include seasonal virus variants. They have also developedmedicines such as oseltamivir, a neuraminidase blocker that decreases the replication of the influenza virus, accelerating patient recovery.
In the twentieth century, rich nations significantly improved the living conditions of their inhabitants, involving producing vaccines that were widely applied to eliminate health threats as terrible as polio. Antibiotic production reduced the incidence of infectious diseases that caused high mortality, such as postpartum infections and pneumococcal pneumonia; however, these developments were not reflected in developing countries.
In 1990 Julia A. Walsh published in her study "Estimating the burden of illness in the tropics. Tropical and Geographical Medicine" (McGraw-Hill, 1990) shocking figures from poor tropical countries, where deaths from infectious diseases resulting from unsanitary living conditions, malnutrition and lack of health care amounted to 10 million people a year– 50 times more than the mortality reported by Covid-19. Still, this tragedy went almost unnoticed by the world press, both then and so far: a health problem fifty times more lethal than the Covid-19 that still has fifty times less attention. Clearly, the pharmaceutical industry's priorities are focused on the development of high-demand and insured-selling products, and not to meet the health needs of marginalized countries that cannot acquire either biological or next-generation drugs. Therefore, placing ourselves in a scenario like the one we are now going through, it is of paramount importance that governments demand from international agencies to ensure access to vaccines and antiviral drugs for all countries, when they exist and are scientifically approved, of course. It is worth saying that in this respect, in the Covid-19 crisis, the Mexican position has been settled.
As for medical ignorance in the treatment of Covid-19, it is appropriate to cite an extensive article published in 1992 in the specialized journal "The Lancet", concerning the scientific perspectives of adult respiratory stress syndrome (ARDS). ARDS is considered the clinical and pathological result of acute damage to the walls of the alveolar sacs of the lungs, caused by different aggressor agents, including respiratory viruses (adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza A) and the microorganism Mycoplasma pneumoniae, taking into account that 60% of ARDS cases are triggered by previous pneumonia , although there are other causes such as bacterial endotoxins in sepsis and also non-infectious elements such as accidental aspiration of gastric content and acute pancreatitis. These aggressors are able to damage the cells of the alveolar wall through which the gas exchange is carried out; this injury activates chemical mediators and inflammatory cells that destroy the alveolar walls.
When the patient has acute respiratory distress and bilateral projected pulmonary x-ray, severe damage to the alveolar walls can be diagnosed clinically, so the patient may be refractory to oxygen therapy due to the degree of destruction of lung tissue; that's why ARDS is often fatal.
In the scenario of the current pandemic I consider that the Covid-19 virus should be added to the list of possible ardS-causing agents, and this is precisely what would guide the emphatically recommending early and timely medical care. According to previous experience with other respiratory viruses, Covid-19 behaves similarly. Most of the infected have mild or mild symptomsrecovery smoothly, although in some cases it will develop interstitial pneumonia; it is these sick people who can evolve into ARDS and die.Two recent publications report a significant increase in the presence of ARDS due to Covid-19, which highly suggests that covid-19 mortality is due to ARDS (see references 1 and 2). Hence, if the patient shows high fever and breathing difficulty, he should receive immediate medical attention to monitor the inflammatory reaction of pneumonia before there is visible lung damage on x-rays.
At the National Institute of Cardiology Ignacio Chávez has established a treatment for patients with severe Covid-19 that includes the use of anticoagulants with encouraging results. This therapy is a great success because the extensive endothelial damage that triggers ARDS induces disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombosis of alveolar pulmonary vessels and capillaries, which is of course a potentially lethal complication. The Institute of Cardiology is a good model of expert integration to address the severe cases of Covid-19: the pneumologist attends to the aspects of ventilation and therapy to moderate lung inflammation, the infectologist supplies the appropriate antiviral agents and antibiotics to fight pneumonia, and the hematologist does what is necessary to prevent thrombosis; the result is a much better prognosis for the patient.
In conclusion, what I have tried here to provide is that there is sufficient evidence, even historical evidence, to conclude that we are facing a serious but not uncontrollable pandemic, and that to deal with it with the lowest cost of human suffering requires a high ethical sense and responsibility on the part of the government and society, putting much more emphasis on health aspects than on disqualifications and signs of certain responsibilities. Alarmist messages that distort the true dimension of the problem, magnifying it at the level of a health catastrophe, are so far unjustified and inaccurate; its repetition has been very damaging, because it discourages the effort to be invested in the recovery from normality.
Finally, it is important to prioritize the health information contained in the medical literature, socializing their knowledge not to promote self-medication but to stimulate the timely search for specialized care by patients, while at the same time promoting in the medical body the updating of their knowledge and their ongoing training. This binomial depends on the safeguarding of life.
References:
1: Guo et al., 'The origin, transmission and clinical therapies on coronavirus disease', 'Military Medical Research', No. 7, 13 March 2020.
2: Solaimanzadeh, I., Azetazolamide, 'Nifedipine and Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors in the treatment of coronavirus disease', 'Cureus', No. 12, 20 March 2020.
* Leopoldo Paasch Martínez is a veterinary physician zootechnist at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and PhD in Philosophy in the area of Comparative Pathology from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., United States. He has been director of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Zootechnics, administrative secretary and candidate for rector of UNAM itself, where he is a professor "C" and teaches in bachelor's and postgraduate studies the subjects General Pathology, Avian Pathology and Metabolic Diseases of Birds. His areas of expertise are avian pathology, comparative pathology and livestock public policies. He is a member of the National System of Investigators.
[email protected]