URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006867874
ID : GPHN2020042900059

Date : 2020-04-27 19:05:00
Title : With COVID19 stealing the headlines whered the flu go
Ariticle : 
With the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic dominating the headlines — and the general population's health concerns — for the past two months, some might ask the question, "What about the flu? Where'd it go?"
It's still around, but Tennessee is currently a low-risk state for the seasonal illness, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But still, vaccines are being recommended for those who never received them late last fall.
Each week, the CDC issues a report regarding positive flu cases and confirmed flu-related deaths, including pneumonia.
According to the most recently available data from the CDC from the weeks of April 4 and April 11, roughly 4% of individuals visiting outpatient facilities were exhibiting "influenza-like illness."
Nationwide, fewer than 0.5% of lab specimens are testing positive for influenza, the CDC reports.
However, since the outbreak of COVID-19 in Tennessee, patients have limited their visits to doctor's offices and hospitals.
Tennova Healthcare in Cleveland reported a 50% decline in their hospital census in the last month, according to Chief Medical Officer Dr. Bill Johnson.
The CDC says the decrease in individuals seeking healthcare services may have an unintended effect on reported influenza numbers.
According to data gathered by Business Insider, influenza is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States, behind cancer, heart disease, and COVID-19.
CDC reports Tennessee had seen 11 pediatric influenza-related deaths during the 2019-2020 flu season.
Meanwhile, southern states like Georgia and South Carolina are high-risk states for contracting the flu, with the highest-risk state in the U.S. being New Jersey.
Just as with other respiratory infections, frequent handwashing and covering one's cough can slow the spread of the flu. This year, the CDC is recommending individuals in high risk categories, such as the elderly or immunocompromised, or children ages 6 months to 8 years old receive two doses of the flu vaccine — one as soon as possible and the second before the end of October.
Flu shots can still be administered at local pharmacies and the Bradley County Health Department.
The flu shot takes up to two weeks to take effect, and doses of the flu shot must be a minimum of four weeks apart. Conventional flu vaccines are not thought to be a deterrent against COVID-19, according to the CDC.