URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006906850
ID : GPHN2020050500071

Date : 2020-05-04 22:33:00
Title : RNA Viruses - Influenza A Virus; New Influenza A Virus Findings Reported from University Research Institute (IRF5 Promotes Influenza Virus-Induced Inflammatory Responses in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Myeloid Cells and Murine Models)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 27 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Journal of Engineering -- Current study results on RNA Viruses - Influenza A Virus have been published. According to news reporting originating from Cardiff, United Kingdom, by VerticalNews correspondents, research stated, "Recognition of influenza A virus (IAV) by the innate immune system triggers pathways that restrict viral replication, activate innate immune cells, and regulate adaptive immunity. However, excessive innate immune activation can exaggerate disease."
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from University Research Institute, "The pathways promoting excessive activation are incompletely understood, with limited experimental models to investigate the mechanisms driving influenza virus-induced inflammation in humans. Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a transcription factor that plays important roles in the induction of cytokines after viral sensing. In an model of IAV infection, IRF5 deficiency reduced IAV-driven immune pathology and associated inflammatory cytokine production, specifically reducing cytokine-producing myeloid cell populations in mice but not impacting type 1 interferon (IFN) production or virus replication. Using cytometry by time of flight (CyTOF), we identified that human lung IRF5 expression was highest in cells of the myeloid lineage. To investigate the role of IRF5 in mediating human inflammatory responses by myeloid cells to IAV, we employed human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hIPSCs) with biallelic mutations in , demonstrating for the first time that induced pluripotent stem cell-derived dendritic cells (iPS-DCs) with biallelic mutations can be used to investigate the regulation of human virus-induced immune responses. Using this technology, we reveal that IRF5 deficiency in human DCs, or macrophages, corresponded with reduced virus-induced inflammatory cytokine production, with IRF5 acting downstream of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) and, possibly, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) after viral sensing. Thus, IRF5 acts as a regulator of myeloid cell inflammatory cytokine production during IAV infection in mice and humans and drives immune-mediated viral pathogenesis independently of type 1 IFN and virus replication. The inflammatory response to influenza A virus (IAV) participates in infection control but contributes to disease severity. After viral detection, intracellular pathways are activated, initiating cytokine production, but these pathways are incompletely understood. We show that interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) mediates IAV-induced inflammation and, in mice, drives pathology. This was independent of antiviral type 1 IFN and virus replication, implying that IRF5 could be specifically targeted to treat influenza virus-induced inflammation. We show for the first time that human iPSC technology can be exploited in genetic studies of virus-induced immune responses. Using this technology, we deleted IRF5 in human myeloid cells. These IRF5-deficient cells exhibited impaired influenza virus-induced cytokine production and revealed that IRF5 acts downstream of Toll-like receptor 7 and possibly retinoic acid-inducible gene I."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Our data demonstrate the importance of IRF5 in influenza virus-induced inflammation, suggesting that genetic variation in the IRF5 gene may influence host susceptibility to viral diseases."
For more information on this research see: IRF5 Promotes Influenza Virus-Induced Inflammatory Responses in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Myeloid Cells and Murine Models. The Journal of Virology, 2020;94(9):. The Journal of Virology can be contacted at: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA.
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting J.L. Forbester, Division of Infection and Immunity, Systems Immunity, University Research Institute, Cardiff, UK. Additional authors for this research include M. Clement, D. Wellington, A. Yeung, S. Dimonte, M. Marsden, L. Chapman, E.L. Coomber, C. Tolley, E. Lees, C. Hale, S. Clare, I. Udalova, T. Dong, G. Dougan and I.R Humphreys.
Publisher contact information for the The Journal of Virology is: Amer Soc Microbiology, 1752 N St NW, Washington, DC 20036-2904, USA.
Keywords for this news article include: Viral, Europe, Cardiff, Genetics, Virology, Cytokines, Technology, RNA Viruses, Inflammation, Myeloid Cells, United Kingdom, Influenza A Virus, Virus Replication, Health and Medicine, Risk and Prevention, DNA Binding Proteins, Transcription Factors, Microbiological Processes, Interferon Regulatory Factors.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC