URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006908971
ID : GPHN2020050500136

Date : 2020-05-01 04:01:00
Title : Tuberculosis - Tuberculoma; New Findings from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in the Area of Tuberculoma Reported (Neurocysticercosis or tuberculoma - Which one has more epileptic potential?)
Ariticle : 
2020 MAY 1 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Drug Week -- Investigators publish new report on Tuberculosis - Tuberculoma. According to news reporting originating from Uttar Pradesh, India, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "The duration of antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment in the management of seizures due to ring enhancing lesions (REL) remains a matter of debate. We undertook a prospective cohort study to look into the seizure patterns and incidence of recurrence in association with two of the most common causes of RELs after gradually stopping AEDs at least 18 months after acheiving seizure control."
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, "Ninety patients with neurocysticercosis (NCC) and twenty-nine patients with tuberculoma were treated with anti-helminthic and anti-tubercular drugs according to current recommended guidelines, and followed up for a minimum of 2 years after the last seizure free day. In every patient included in the study, AEDs were tapered within six months of attaining a seizure-free interval of 18 months. We looked at the incidence of recurrent seizures after stopping AEDs in both groups of patients. The frequency of baseline seizures (2.1 vs 1.5 per year, p<0.001) and number of antiepileptic drugs (2.12 vs 1.48, p<0.001) were greater in patients with NCC than those with tuberculoma. Patients with NCC had a greater incidence of recurrent seizures (1.17 vs 0.07 in the next six months, p<0.001) after stopping the AEDs. The median interval to seizure recurrence after stopping AEDs was 2.2 months in patients with NCC. Among RELs, NCC lesions have a greater epileptogenic potential than tuberculomas."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "AEDs can be tapered in patients with tuberculoma after a seizure free period of 18 months with a very low risk of recurrence."
For more information on this research see: Neurocysticercosis or tuberculoma - Which one has more epileptic potential? Seizure, 2020;78():91-95. Seizure can be contacted at: W B Saunders Co LTD, 32 Jamestown Rd, London NW1 7BY, England. (Elsevier - www.elsevier.com; Seizure - www.journals.elsevier.com/seizure-european-journal-of-epilepsy/)
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting S. Pradhan, Dept. of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Raebareily Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 226014, India. Additional authors for this research include A. Das, M. Mulmuley and A. Das.
Publisher contact information for the journal Seizure is: W B Saunders Co LTD, 32 Jamestown Rd, London NW1 7BY, England.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, India, Epilepsy, Seizures, Taeniasis, Tuberculoma, Tuberculosis, Uttar Pradesh, Neurocysticercosis, Drugs and Therapies, Health and Medicine, Risk and Prevention, Mycobacterium Infections, Neurologic Manifestations, Actinomycetales Infections, Central Nervous System Infections, Parasitic Diseases and Conditions.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC