URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006880846
ID : GPHN2020043000168

Date : 2020-04-30 12:14:00
Title : They call for preparation for upcoming outbreaks
Ariticle : 
Once the Covid-19 health emergency passes, the focus of health authorities and all sorts should be to prepare (and adapt) to the next outbreaks of the disease that, as long as there is no vaccine against it, will continue to affect the population, with their respective economic impacts.
This was considered by Jorge Damián Morán, researcher and risk management specialist, who noted that various aspects of the current epidemic account for the lack of foresight of the cities and countries in which it has impacted, which has forced, in many cases, to plan in a hasty manner.
"What one could assess or criticize is how the situation seems to have arrived without proper forecasts: in December the first case was recorded in China and by the end of January there were thousands and 50 countries with some contagion.
"In Mexico it seems that it was waited until the first case was recorded, one would expect in a risk management system that they would start thinking about scenarios, and it seems that it was not done," said the interview specialist with REFORMA.
Since we are already in Phase 3 of the epidemic, exposed to hospital saturation, the focus should be on a disaster at the economic time of the population returning or trying to resume their daily lives, also considering the possibility of new outbreaks in the winter season.
"What researchers, academics and the health sector should be doing is thinking that this situation is likely to become a seasonal disease, such as influenza and influenza.
"In December it is likely that in other spaces it will start to occur, we would have to start looking for ways to plan how to deal with the situation and how not to stop economic activity," Morán said.
Part of the adaptation that should be envisaged in the face of these potential outbreaks is to ensure the continuity of the essential activities of society: from economic activities and education, as well as the prevention of possible adverse effects of confinement, including psychological conditions.
"We should be thinking, in terms of education, how we do so that kids don't miss their school courses, so that people can continue to work remotely, but really with systems that allow it.
"We're going to see a productivity problem, not only because of the economic downturn, but also the subjects are going to stop having productivity, because schedules are being altered," he said.
Jorge Damián Morán, expert
"In December it is likely that in other spaces it will start to occur, we would have to start looking for ways (to) address the situation and not stop economic activity."