URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868985
ID : GPHN2020042900105

Date : 2020-04-28 01:00:00
Title : When the Spanish Flu hit Crook County
Ariticle : 
Roughly 102 years ago, Crook County and the world was also dealing with a pandemic
------------
As the world has entered an era of pandemic in the past four months, one piece of history seems to resurface for reflection repeatedly. Roughly 102 years ago, the world was also dealing with a pandemic — and those who contracted the virus also suffered from complications of pneumonia. The "Spanish Flu," however, targeted young, healthy adults and had a host of additional unpleasant side effects.
A quick look at what was happening in the world — but particularly in Prineville in 1918, gives some reflection on what has changed — and a reminder of how Prineville still rallies together a century later.
Overview of Spanish Influenza in 1918
The United States entered World War 1 in April 1917 with 378,000 service members. The conditions of overcrowding and global troop movement enabled the spread of influenza, later called the "Spanish Influenza." Ironically, the pandemic coincided with the beginning and end of World War I. The pandemic is reported to have begun raging in Europe in May-July of 1917. At least in Prineville, the cases were beginning to wane in November 1918 — shortly after the War ended.
According to the Central for Disease Control (CDC), the 1918 influenza pandemic was the most severe pandemic in recent history. It was caused by an H1N1 virus with genes of avian origin. Although there is not universal consensus regarding where the virus originated, it spread worldwide during 1917-1919. The first mention in the United States of the Spanish Influenza was in a weekly public report in Haskell, Kansas, on April 5, 1918.
While the 1918 H1N1 virus has been synthesized and evaluated, the properties that made it so devastating are not well understood. With no vaccine to protect against influenza infection and no antibiotics to treat secondary bacterial infections that can be associated with influenza infections, control efforts worldwide were limited to non-pharmaceutical interventions such as isolation, quarantine, good personal hygiene, use of disinfectants, and limitations of public gatherings, which were applied unevenly.
The CDC reported that the "Spanish Influenza," killed 675,000 in the United States and 50 million worldwide. It is estimated that the H1N1 Virus infected 500 million people, or one-third of the world's population at the time. The virus caused mortality mostly in people less than 5 years of age, 20-40 years old and those over the age of 65.
The closest demographic information available shows that in 1920, Prineville had a population of 1, 144. Bend's population at that time was 5,415.
Timeline in Prineville of the Spanish Influenza Epidemic from the "Crook County Journal" (Central Oregonian) in 1918
October 17, 1918
A local resident, Mrs. Lettie Marker Pratt, traveled to Portland, Oregon and upon returning from her visit to Portland became ill with the influenza. According to the report, "She was quarantined in an isolated place in a south part of the city, and the situation did not warrant the closing of schools or other places."
The local health officials deemed that the schools would not be closed unless the disease started to spread.
At the time of the pandemic, U.S. Health officials began education programs to promote the dangers of coughing and sneezing and the spread of the infection.
An entry on Oct. 17 also seems to address this:
"Uncle Sam's Advice on Flu: The Public Health Service Issues Official Health Bulletin on Influenza"
This bulletin addressed the symptoms to watch for, the recommended protocols at the time, and some history of the epidemic with their best information at the time. Some excerpts from the bulletin that were included in the Crook County Journal:
Spanish authorities repudiated any claim to influenza as a "Spanish Disease." U.S. Surgeon General Rupert Blue made the following statement about the Spanish Flu; "The disease now occurring in this country, and called "the Spanish Influenza," resembles a very contagious kind of cold, accompanied by fever, pains."
It was described as affecting the eyes, head, ears and back or other parts of the body — with a feeling of "severe sickness." In most cases, the symptoms disappeared within three or four days and the patient rapidly recovered. Some patients, however, developed pneumonia or inflammation of the ears or meningitis, and many patients of these complicated cases died.
The Crook County Journal also reported that epidemics of influenza had visited the United States since 1867. The first epidemic was brought from Valencia, Spain in 1889 and 1890. It started in the Orient and spread first to Russia — then to the civilized world. It also reported that the Spanish Influenza at the time had raged across Europe in May, June and July of 1917. It spread throughout communities rapidly, and those who became ill did so very suddenly. Those stricken would feel weak and have pain in the eyes, ears, head or back and sometimes become dizzy, and had chills and nausea. High fevers also accompanied the illness.
The cause of the influenza was suggested, "It is now believed that influenza is always spread from person to person, and the germs being carried with the air, along with the very small droplets of mucus, expelled by coughing, sneezing, forceful talking and the like — by one who already has the germs of the disease."
Prevention included, "In guarding against disease of all kinds, it is important that the body be kept strong and able to fight off disease germs."
The recommendations also included eating enough wholesome food, and drinking milk was also stressed as "one of the best all-around foods for adult and children." A close relationship between overcrowding in homes and businesses was also recognized as a way that further spread the influenza. It was believed that once a person who contracted the influenza had recovered, they could contract the disease again.
For those who were caring for patients, it was advised to wear a "wrapper, apron or gown while in the sick room." They should also wear a simple fold of gauze or a mask when near the patient. When a patient became ill, they were advised to immediately go home and go to bed, and not be in the same room as other members of the household. Only caregivers were allowed in the room, and they could give a cold compress if the patient were running a fever.
"It is foolish to ask the druggist to prescribe, and may be dangerous to take so-called safe, sure and harmless remedies advertised by patent medicine manufacturers."
November 7, 1918
The Main Headline on Nov. 7, 1918 read, "The War is Over!" The sub headline that day also read, "Germany signed terms of Armistice at 11 o'clock and hostilities ceased at 2 p.m. today."
Below that headline, "Influenza cases develop here."
Several more cases developed the week of Nov. 7. One death was attributed to the Spanish Influenza, but "almost all of the other cases are either convalescent or considered light by attending physicians."
Prompt action of local authorities in closing public meetings was given credit for preventing a wide spread of the disease in the beginning. At the time of this edition, all schools, churches, and other public places were closed, and any kind of meetings were forbidden by city authorities.
The number of cases at this time was estimated at 6-18, but because many of them were light cases, the exact number was not easily determined.
This entry of a death announcement on Nov. 7:?Mrs. Ed Greenslet of Lakeview passed away at Home Hospital (In Prineville). Her cause of death was pneumonia, resulting from influenza. She stopped in Prineville on the way to The Dalles, Oregon, when she became ill. Formerly Lela Holder, she was originally from Prineville. Her father was the editor of "The Review."
November 14, 1918
A family of F.N. Wallace, a family of five from Tumalo,were reported to be ill of Spanish Influenza.
Bend was hit hard; Cases are many and several in the morgue last night: "Bend is suffering heavily from the Spanish influenza epidemic. According to reports that reached this city today, four funerals were held yesterday, and several bodies were in the morgue last night."
December 5, 1918
Schools were scheduled to open Dec. 2, after five weeks of quarantine. It was announced that Prineville was "practically free from influenza."
December 12, 1918
Powell Butte news in the Crook County Journal:
Joe Townsend was taken ill in the field and was taken to the Redmond hospital, where it was full of "flu sufferers." He was then taken to the Prineville hospital.
Bend lifted ban on public meetings. They had previously had an emergency hospital operating for several weeks during the pandemic's peak.
Information wasn't available on how many cases Prineville had of the Spanish Influenza altogether, except for the excerpt on Nov. 7 of 6-18 cases.
Sidebar
Information on Prineville timeline derived from archives of the Crook County Journal (Original Central Oregonian), October 1918 to December 1918.
History of the Spanish Influenza from Center for Disease Control (CDC) Archives.