URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006868704
ID : GPHN2020042900172

Date : 2020-04-28 22:48:00
Title : Life Science Research - Parasitology; New Parasitology Study Findings Reported from Texas A&M University (Prevalence of Protozoan Parasites In Small and Medium Mammals In Texas, Usa)
Ariticle : 
2020 APR 28 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Life Science Weekly -- Current study results on Life Science Research - Parasitology have been published. According to news reporting originating from College Station, Texas, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, "Wildlife interaction with humans increases the risk of potentially infected ticks seeking an opportunistic blood meal and consequently leading to zoonotic transmission. In the United States, human babesiosis is a tick-borne zoonosis most commonly caused by the intraerythrocytic protozoan parasite, Babesia microti."
Financial support for this research came from United States National Institutes of Health.
Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from Texas A&M University, "The presence of Babesia microti and other species of Babesia within Texas has not been well characterized, and the molecular prevalence of these pathogens within wildlife species is largely unknown. Small (e.g. rodents) and medium sized mammalian species (e.g. racoons) represent potential reservoirs for specific species of Babesia, though this relationship has not been thoroughly evaluated within Texas. This study aimed to characterize the molecular prevalence of Babesia species within small and medium sized mammals at two sites in East Texas with an emphasis on detection of pathogen presence in these two contrasting wild mammal groups at these sites. To that end, a total of 480 wild mammals representing eight genera were trapped, sampled, and screened for Babesia species using the TickPath layerplex qPCR assay. Two sites were selected for animal collection, including The Big Thicket National Preserve and Gus Engeling Wildlife Management Area. Molecular analysis revealed the prevalence of various Babesia and Hepathozoon species at 0.09% each, and Sarcocystis at 0.06%."
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Continued molecular prevalence surveys of tick-borne pathogens in Texas wild mammals will be needed to provide novel information as to which species of Babesia are most prevalent and identify specific wildlife species as pathogen reservoirs."
For more information on this research see: Prevalence of Protozoan Parasites In Small and Medium Mammals In Texas, Usa. International Journal for Parasitology Parasites and Wildlife, 2020;11():229-234. International Journal for Parasitology Parasites and Wildlife can be contacted at: Elsevier, Radarweg 29, 1043 Nx Amsterdam, Netherlands.
The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting M.D. Esteve-Gasent, Texas A&M University, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Dept. of Veterinary Pathobiology, 4467 Tamu, College Stn, TX 77843, United States. Additional authors for this research include J.J. Modarelli, B.J. Westrich, M. Milholland, M. Tietjen, R.F. Medina and I. Castro-Arellano.
Keywords for this news article include: College Station, Texas, United States, North and Central America, Parasitology, Life Science Research, Health and Medicine, Protozoan, Risk and Prevention, Texas A&M University.
Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC