URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006900424
ID : GPHN2020050400091

Date : 2020-05-03 21:41:00
Title : Flu vaccination campaign kicks off on Monday with people with surnames starting with A or B
Ariticle : 
The flu vaccination campaign begins on Monday. The goal: to vaccinate 1.3 million people who are most vulnerable to respiratory virus.
The Costa Rican Social Security Fund (CCSS) will vaccinate all children under the age of three to seven, people over the age of 59 and anyone with any disease that may complicate influenza: such as diabetes, hypertension, respiratory diseases, HIV, morbid obesity and pregnant women.
This time, the campaign will not be like the view in previous years. Given the national emergency by covid-19, a stratification is being done according to the letter of the alphabet with which each person's surname begins.
"This Monday will begin with people whose surname begins with the letters A and B," recalled Román Macaya, executive chairman of ccSS, on Sunday afternoon during press conference.
People whose surnames begin with letters B and C will have their vaccination the week of May 11.
Older adults, being one of the populations at highest risk, will have specific schedules for vaccination.
"We have booked from 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m. only to vaccinate older adults over 65 years. It's a call to leave the house, but only to get vaccinated and with a schedule set only for over 65s from 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m.," Macaya said.
This is not the case for minors, who will be vaccinated from 18 May. This is because paediatric doses have not yet entered the country, due to delays caused by the global emergency by covid-19. Quality controls are expected to enter and pass in mid-May.
The flu vaccine to be placed this year is the quadrivalent of the southern hemisphere. It is the same that people who also want to protect against influenza, but who are not within the risk groups, will have to buy from private pharmacies. CCSS invested $6.1 million in the procurement of these vaccines.
Vaccines will not be put in Ebony
Another particular feature of this flu vaccination is that it will not be performed in the Ebons; each health area will allocate a specific place, it can be a school or communal center. This is done so as not to mix the population going for the vaccine, of those who come to the health center for the care of a health condition.
People can call their Ebony to find out where their vaccination center will be.