URL : https://gphin.canada.ca/cepr/showarticle.jsp?docId=1006894967
ID : GPHN2020050300021

Date : 2020-05-03 18:00:00
Title : CORONAVIRUS FIGHTBACK Influenza kept at a distance
Ariticle : 
Steep fall in lurgy cases
A POSITIVE outcome of the COVID-19 pandemic has been a significant drop in cases of the flu in the Territory, with doctors saying social-distancing measures have prevented a number of other respiratory viruses from spreading.
NT Health disease surveillance head Peter Markey said there had been a steep fall in influenza-like illness since mid-March, when social-distancing measures were introduced.
“We routinely monitor these illnesses in the NT’s emergency departments and the NT Government remote clinics, and in both settings flu-like illness has fallen,” he said.
“In addition, laboratory-confirmed cases of influenza have declined markedly following a slight wet season increase in February and March.” Dr Markey said there had also been a sharp fall in the number of cases of pneumonia diagnosed in emergency departments.
He said this was because Territorians were complying with social-distancing measures implemented because of COVID-19.
“It looks like the measures are having an impact, not just in the urban areas but also in remote communities, which is great news,” he said.
Dr Markey said surveillance measures used to monitor the flu had been beneficial in preventing the spread of both flu-like viruses and COVID-19.
“These systems have been in place to help predict and monitor the seasonal flu – but their development has also been part of pandemic planning in the NT,” he said.
“Together with national systems, they will help us detect and monitor COVID-19 if it re-emerges.” It comes as Darwin pharmacies and doctors’ clinics are experiencing shortages of flu vaccines because of a spike in demand caused by coronavirus.
Pharmaceutical Society SA/NT branch vice president Sam Keitanpaa said there was a national shortage of the flu shot, which had affected supply in the NT.“There is a high demand for Fluvax which is positive as it is especially important this year given the current situation,” he said. “While some stock has been made available through pharmacies, there are still delays getting enough to meet demand.”