URL : http://www.saude.gov.br/noticias/agencia-saude/46842-segunda-fase-10-milhoes-do-publico-alvo-ainda-nao-se-vacinou
ID : MIOH2020050600002

Date : 2020-05-05 00:00:00
Title : Second phase: 10 million of the audience are not vaccinated
Ariticle : 
The third phase of the campaign will begin on May 11 and will be divided into two stages. Among the priority groups are
children 6 months to less than 6 years, pregnant women and mothers in the postpartum period (45 days)
The second phase of the National Vaccination Campaign against Flu closes on May 8 around the country, and only 36% (5.6 million) of public priority was vaccinated at this stage, still missing about 10 million people. The Ministry of Health warns that people should go to a health clinic to receive the flu vaccine, regardless of pandemic COVID-19. The states and municipalities are prepared to offer secure vaccine to priority groups.
The goal is to vaccinate 90% of all planned public for the three phases of the campaign. The second phase of the vaccination is directed to indigenous peoples, truckers, drivers and conductors of public transport, port workers, members of the security and rescue forces; people with chronic illnesses and other special medical conditions; adolescents and young people 12-21 years under educational measures; Prisoners and staff of the prison system.
Drivers and collectors, truck drivers and port should seek vaccination, regardless of their status or place of residence, in any public service vaccination, fixed or mobile, for transit across the country. It is recommended to submit any documentary evidence, such as working papers, the paycheck with the identity card, a membership card (a) of transport trade unions, driver's license (categories C, D or E), registration with the Governing Body of Manpower (OGMO) or statements of services where they operate.
So far, the public transport workers (drivers and conductors), truck drivers and port registered lower demand in the second phase of the campaign. Were 467,000 doses applied, and the estimate is to vaccinate 2.6 million of these professionals.
Registration and monitoring of doses applied in the information system is of great importance. So far, five municipalities in the states of Rondônia, Amazonas and Pará not yet recorded any dose applied to the information system.
People with chronic diseases and other special medical conditions, must present a prescription at the time of vaccination. registered patients in control programs of chronic diseases SUS should go to jobs where they are registered to receive the vaccine, without the need to present a prescription.
The third phase of the campaign will begin on May 11 and will be divided into two stages. The first takes place in the period 11 to May 17 to focus on people with disabilities; children 6 months to less than 6 years; pregnant women; postpartum mothers until 45 days. The second stage takes place between May 18 to June 5 and are included teachers from public and private schools and adults 55-59 years of age.
The national vaccination campaign against Influenza continues until June 5 and the goal is to vaccinate at least 90% of each of these groups.
All states are supplied to further national vaccination campaign against Influenza. For this, the Ministry of Health invested R $ 1.1 billion in the purchase of 79 million doses of vaccine for the three phases. More than 64 million doses have been sent to the federal units to meet the target audience of the first two phases, totaling 41.5 million people.
Every week, the Ministry of Health sends new shipments of batches of the vaccine to the states, as delivery of the Butantan Institute, which anticipated in a month its production, so that the country initiated the vaccination of the population against influenza. The states are responsible for making the distribution to the municipalities.
The Ministry of Health maintains surveillance of influenza in Brazil through the sentinel surveillance of influenza-like illness (SG) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in hospitalized patients. There are 200 units distributed in all geographic regions of the country and aims to identify circulating respiratory viruses, enable monitoring of hospitalized cases and deaths service demand.
In 2020, until April 18, there were 1,696 cases of SARS hospitalized for influenza (flu) across the country, with 163 deaths. Of all cases that had already identified the subtyping were 468 cases of influenza A (H1N1) with 66 deaths; 45 cases and 10 deaths from influenza A (H3N2), influenza A 263 not subtyped with 43 deaths; and 44 cases and 399 deaths from influenza B
 
By Jessica Cerilo, Health Agency

The press service

(61) 3315- 3580 / 2745
 
 
 
 