URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/xl/2020-05-05/doc-iircuyvi1348537.shtml
ID : SINA2020050500040

Date : 2020-05-05 03:47:00
Title : Doubt that China&#39;s mortality rate is purely political speculation
Ariticle : 
Original title: Doubt that China&#39;s mortality rate is purely political speculation (Bell)
It is unreasonable to make trouble about the mortality rate of the epidemic in China. It can neither make any articles nor help fight the epidemic.
In the face of the sudden outbreak of new coronary pneumonia, China has always adhered to the principle of life first, maximized the cure rate, reduced the mortality rate, and spared no effort to save the lives of every patient. In this sudden and serious epidemic, many Chinese people died because of the epidemic, and the Chinese people feel extremely sorry!
China has always been transparent about the statistics of patients and deaths, and each case can be clearly traced throughout the process. However, some American politicians have repeatedly accused China of “concealing reports of infections and deaths” with their brains similar to political madness in order to conceal their ineffectiveness against epidemics, slapping their heads and falsely claiming that “the most deaths must be China”. This is not a kind of ignorant ignorance, but a sinister calculation, which is vulgar and conceals evil intentions.
Life is heavier than Mount Tai, which is the belief that the Chinese government and Chinese people have always upheld in the fight against epidemics. The outbreak of the epidemic has caused China to take advantage of the system and form a national joint force. In many areas, economic and social life has “emergency brakes”. Closed passages for nearly 60 million populous provinces and cities with more than 10 million people have “closing cities” to save lives! Hundreds of medical teams quickly assembled, and more than 42,000 medical personnel assisted Hubei. The country&#39;s best medical resources and the top experts in respiratory and infectious diseases were concentrated in Wuhan. Millions of people across the country participated in the Wuhan defense war in various ways. The defense of Hubei is to save lives! Wuhan conducted a carpet-style investigation of &quot;no one&quot; or &quot;one person&quot; for more than 4.2 million households in the city to ensure that everything should be collected and cured, in order to save lives! For all severe and critically ill patients, the &quot;one person, one strategy&quot; is implemented. The average treatment cost of severe patients exceeds 150,000 yuan, and the treatment costs of some critically ill patients reach several hundred thousand yuan or even more than one million yuan, all borne by medical insurance and the government. , In order to save lives! Tan Desai, Director General of the World Health Organization, sighed: &quot;I have never seen such mobilization in my life.&quot;
Some politicians in the United States have accused China of concealing the number of deaths and deaths, and even the Western media have refuted it, saying bluntly &quot;it is impossible.&quot; The whole process of China&#39;s war epidemic was made public. From January, China announced the number of confirmed cases, the number of deaths and deaths, suspected cases, close contacts, and quarantine observers every day. At the national level and during the epidemic situation in various provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, more than 3,000 press conferences have been held. Government officials, medical personnel, experts and scholars, and patients who have recovered face the camera directly. After arduous and arduous efforts, the defensive battles in Hubei and Wuhan achieved decisive results, and the national epidemic prevention and control blockade achieved major strategic achievements. Facing provocative questions from the US media, Bruce Elward, senior adviser to the Director-General of the World Health Organization, pointed out that &quot;China has not concealed the data, and multiple inspections conducted by the WHO expert group in China can prove this.&quot;
The outbreak of the epidemic, an emergency response. In the early days, due to insufficient admission capacity, a few medical institutions failed to connect with the disease prevention and control information system in a timely manner, the hospital was overloaded, medical staff were busy with treatment, and there were objectively late reports, missed reports, false positives, or repeated statistics. However, the statistical work has been ongoing, and once the conditions for comprehensive verification are met, Wuhan has conducted a comprehensive investigation, statistics, and correction of the epidemic situation data in a timely manner, and it has been fully published in the world. This is responsible for history, the people, and the deceased!
However, after China released the revised data on the Wuhan epidemic on April 17, some politicians in the United States felt that they had caught straw and were inexplicably excited, throwing out &quot;Chinese data is not credible&quot; &quot;This is only a revision of Wuhan, and there will definitely be other cities in the future.&quot; Ridiculous remarks. They seem to think that the more Chinese people die, the more they will fit their hearts, which is really a cruel political morbidity. American netizens couldn&#39;t see it anymore, and they posted angrily: &quot;According to the proportion of the population, even if you believe that the rumors of China&#39;s death tolls have been enlarged ten times, you can&#39;t find your face.&quot; &quot;Blatantly compare with China, this is death. Competition? &quot;&quot; This is what sick, crazy and anti-human talents will do! &quot;
WHO has been asking countries to revise the figures in a timely manner, &quot;so that we can grasp the impact of the epidemic and predict trends more accurately.&quot; The revised data is a responsible and professional performance of the international community. It is an internationally accepted practice and a proof of China&#39;s upholding the principles of openness, transparency, and accountability. I would like to ask, some other countries are constantly correcting the epidemic data, and the United States is constantly correcting it. Why do some American politicians focus on China? The reason is self-evident. This is the American-style arrogance and ideological arrogance that these politicians are accustomed to. In their arrogant political narrative procedures, things in the world that the world is doing better than the United States are false, or they know they are true, but for political needs, they must be arrogant and out of nothing! Many American media have seen it really. The New York Times survey found that according to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, from March 8 to April 11, the total number of deaths in New York, New Jersey and other seven states with severe new pneumonia outbreaks was nearly 50% higher than normal , But the sudden increase in the total number of deaths is included in the statistics of other diseases. The ABC&#39;s bottom-up survey pointed out that the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducted an ex-post analysis of the outbreak of H1N1 influenza in the United States in 2009 and 2010, and concluded that the true data is likely to be 15 times higher than official statistics.
China&#39;s sacrifices and dedication, achievements and contributions can be learned from the world, and both can be proved by the sun and the moon. Advise some politicians in the United States to conjecture that they cannot replace facts after all, and smearing is doomed not to wipe out the truth. You should know that there is no reason to make trouble about the mortality rate of the epidemic in China. It can neither make any articles nor help people to fight against the epidemic.
Editor in charge: Zhang Di