URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-04-30/doc-iircuyvi0726392.shtml
ID : SINA2020043000036

Date : 2020-04-30 16:26:00
Title : Trump threatened to punish the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs with various means to respond
Ariticle : 
Original Title: Trump Confessed to Punish China by Various Means, Geng Shuang: Expose Sinister Intent, and Finally Dismantle His Own Platform
On April 30, Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang hosted a regular press conference.
A reporter asked that US President Trump said in an interview that the United States has various ways to allow China to bear the consequences of the spread of the virus. What&#39;s China&#39;s comment on this?
In this regard, Geng Shuang said that I have been answering similar questions recently. I have used the timeline method many times, and spent a relatively long time to introduce the relevant situation to you. One thing is very clear. Responsible attitude, first of all to control the domestic epidemic situation, but also made an important contribution to the international fight against epidemic. This is generally fully affirmed and highly appreciated by the international community.
Geng Shuang pointed out that for a period of time, American politicians have disregarded the facts and attempted to shirk their own responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the epidemic, to divert their attention, dump the pot, and blame. This approach will not erase the anti-epidemic achievements of the Chinese people through hard work, but will only expose the sinister intentions of individual individuals in the United States and their own serious problems. Viruses are the common enemy of mankind, and China is also a victim of viruses. The victims are sympathetic to each other and should work together. Individuals in the United States should understand that their enemy is a virus, not China.
&quot;As for the so-called punishment and the responsibility for it, I remember that we have said many times before at the press conference that there is no legal basis for this statement and there is no international precedent for this. H1N1 flu, Ebola, Zika and other major outbreaks, who will be punished afterwards? Who is responsible for this? &quot;
Geng Shuang said that the top priority is for the international community to increase mutual trust, strengthen solidarity, and jointly fight against the epidemic. At this time, demolishing others&#39; platforms will eventually demolish their own.
Editor in charge: Yang Jie