URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/w/2020-05-01/doc-iirczymi9321986.shtml
ID : SINA2020050100009

Date : 2020-04-30 23:56:00
Title : Hu Xijin: Refreshing awareness that American lives are so &quot;not worth&quot;
Ariticle : 
Original title: Hu Xijin: Refreshing understanding, American lives are so &quot;not worth&quot;
It is really unexpected that the new crown epidemic situation has become like this in the world. The situation has become too fast, and many understandings have been constantly subverted.
At the time of the closure of Wuhan, if there were no drastic changes in the scene of the spread of the epidemic in the world, how would people evaluate the closure of the forbidden foot order in the closure of the city and some places? At that time, the West criticized Wuhan for the closure of the city from a human rights perspective, and some people in China suspected that this might be the most exaggerated &quot;trivial matter&quot; in human history. For those compulsory management that was not allowed even when family and friends played mahjong, the negative evaluation at that time was mainstream, and the performance of individual &quot;red armbands&quot; was particularly disgusting. In those days, some intense public opinion reflected extreme disappointment, believing that the country did not learn any lessons from the disaster of SARS. Such excited comments were very popular in the public opinion field at that time.
Looking back now, Wuhan&#39;s early problems still hold true, and reflection is helpful. But China was able to make the decision to close the city in Wuhan and make the distinction between the Wuhan-Hubei battlefield and the national battlefield, and gave scientists a huge voice, which is actually what SARS taught us. Moreover, the closure of Wuhan City took place after the 14-day virus incubation period. It avoided the more serious consequences of delaying this for 10 days and 8 days. How much courage, mobilization and execution can be done. At that time, no one knew that there would be a later global epidemic to testify about the correctness of the closure, and how history would evaluate the closure was a huge risk. I think that if you have not experienced atypical pneumonia, China will probably not have a city closed in Wuhan. If China does not have an extremely strong political decision-making power, it will not be able to make a determination. Imagine if we took the decision to close the city to the community for discussion at that time, could it be accepted at that point in time?
To be honest, in the period after the closure of the city, some people in private contact with Lao Hu thought that the country had &quot;killed the chicken with a knife&quot;, and the economic loss was too great. If there is no later evidence of the anti-epidemic performance of the United States and other Western societies, we may never know that China has done almost every step since the closure of Wuhan. If you do it in the way of the United States, China may have infected millions of people today, and 100,000 to 200,000 people have died, and this is far from the final number of infections and deaths.
Conversely, looking at the world from China, many things are quite surprising. Is n’t the United States a &quot;democratic society&quot;? How could this be? We have always thought that human life in the United States is &quot;very valuable&quot;. Why is it so much cheaper than that in China? In this epidemic, it is a great thing that some more people died in China. The United States died one or two thousand people a day. How can the president say &quot;how many people did we die&quot;? For the sake of elections, it seems that President Trump really did not take more dead people seriously.
There are also experts in China who misjudged &quot;preventable and controllable&quot; and &quot;limited person-to-person&quot;. As the president, Trump has publicly stated so many understatements such as &quot;the risk is very small&quot; and &quot;has been completely controlled&quot;, and he has warned the risk of multi-sectors in the cabinet. Although the mainstream US media scolded him and expose him, those mainstream media turned out to be very weak. They said nothing, and they hit the ground without sound. It seems that now only the international media take the American media seriously, because of their presence.
Then there is Trump ’s public lie against China, and he shirked their responsibility for the failure of the epidemic to China, and they can actually play in the United States. What makes the American public so deceiving, the pan dumping tricks that can be seen through at a glance are performed one episode after another, and it is too easy to bring rhythm in the United States.
I believe this epidemic will disrupt the original value system of human society, and this impact is likely to have just begun. More and more scientists believe that the new crown epidemic will persist in human society, which means that its political and economic and social consequences will be inevitable. I think that China has withstood the initial test of the epidemic, but no one knows what will happen next. What is important is that China&#39;s anti-epidemic is not a closed system. We will still be in an interactive system with the United States and other countries to influence and verify each other. The epidemic has incredible power to turn over, and the Chinese must remain vigilant.
Please pay special attention that although the United States has done so badly in the fight against epidemics, its tolerance is super strong. If the epidemic continues for several years, and many people die in the United States, the country will still be able to withstand it. But imagine if China and the US show a sharp contrast in the short term, can Chinese society afford it? For example, once the United States first developed vaccines and specific drugs, or that European and American society gradually adapted to the death rate of new coronary pneumonia and opened up to each other, and this situation and the value difference between China and the West strengthened each other, what should China do then?
China has no loose capital at all, and the overall damage to our country by making mistakes may be much worse than that of the United States. When China&#39;s overall strength is weaker than the United States, such a situation will be long-term. We need to continuously strengthen our advantages, make up for the shortcomings and shortcomings, and greatly improve China&#39;s ability to withstand various adverse situations. We need to fight for the day and night, and China will be very uncomfortable in the coming years.
Source: Hu Xijin Weibo
Editor in charge: Zhang Jianli