URL : https://news.sina.com.cn/c/xl/2020-04-29/doc-iircuyvi0373096.shtml
ID : SINA2020042900012

Date : 2020-04-28 21:27:00
Title : Unite! We are all united!
Ariticle : 
Original title: Unite! We are all united! ——Vivid practice of the Chinese People&#39;s Anti-epidemic Force
Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, April 28th, Question: Unite! We are all united! ——Vivid practice of the Chinese People&#39;s Anti-epidemic Force
Xinhua News Agency reporter
Despite the hardships and ambitions, we will resolutely win the people&#39;s war for the prevention and control of the epidemic. In the face of the new crown pneumonia epidemic, in the unforgettable months, Wuhan people, Hubei people and 1.4 billion Chinese people united as one.
Fighting bravely and prudently, we always put people&#39;s lives and health in the first place-from the intensive care unit to the virus laboratory, from the community street to the online network, Chinese children and children interpret life-bearing life with practical actions Great love on earth.
Fight the unprecedented catastrophe with the wisdom of the people, and interpret the power of China with the might of the people. Under the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at the core, the Chinese people who have risen from disasters countless times have worked together to meet the difficulties and wrote a world-shaking historical song.
The party flag is flying high on the front line of anti-epidemic, the epidemic situation calls the people&#39;s might
Communist Party members, deans, and doctors are the triple identities of Zhang Dingyu, president of the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan.
&quot;No matter what identity, in this extraordinary period and critical moment, there is no reason to take a step back, and we must resolutely stand up!&quot; Zhang Dingyu said.
Under the new crown pneumonia epidemic in Wuhan, Hubei, where there are the most dangerous and the most arduous tasks, there are Communist Party members.
The medical team of the Southern Hospital who had been instructed to go to Xiaotangshan in Beijing to fight against SARS volunteered to fight, and vowed: &quot;If there is a fight, the call will be returned and the battle will be won!&quot;
&quot;Before the formation of the support medical team in Guangdong Province, several of our &#39;veterans&#39; wrote &#39;Request for Battle&#39;.&quot; Guo Yabing, director of the Southern Cancer Hospital Liver Tumor Center and Communist Party member, said, &quot;At this moment, the party members are &#39;warriors&#39; and the charge is ahead Responsible. &quot;
&quot;I just want to let the patient breathe as soon as possible, and I don&#39;t have time to consider how much risk I am facing.&quot; Pan Chun, deputy chief physician and Communist Party Member of the Department of Intensive Medicine at the Zhongda Hospital of Southeast University, said loudly.
Hubei and Wuhan have become the biggest concerns of the people of the country since January 23.
Under the deployment of the Party Central Committee and the State Council, more than 300 medical teams, more than 42,000 medical workers, white combat robes and armor went to Jingchu.
One by one, the Communist Party members lead the way, and each one of the temporary Party branches becomes a red bastion for the war.
When coming to Wuhan, Guo Yabing always rushed to the first: the first class in the ward, the first to enter the isolation ward, the first to take the lead in dealing with hidden dangers in the hospital ...
&quot;Party members are kindling, here we can also play our part.&quot; 48-year-old Liu Haiyan is the secretary of the Party Committee of Xunli Community, Xinhua Street, Wuhan. After her diagnosis, she was admitted to the square cabin hospital. She has a new identity-Jiang Hanfang Secretary of the temporary Party branch of patients in the cabin hospital.
Collecting patients&#39; needs, distributing medicines and food ... In the cabin, the &quot;old secretary&quot; bridged the bridge between medical staff and patients.
Race against time and fight against illness. Medical staff work in high intensity for a long time. A nurse held an oxygen mask for the patient for more than an hour. When a doctor checked the room, he fell asleep while standing.
Face masks show scarred faces, and sweat-soaked clothes ... In this weeping battle, more than 40,000 &quot;white warriors&quot; fought side by side with Hubei medical staff, giving life the most powerful protection!
When the assault horn sounded, the severe epidemic called the people&#39;s might.
Vulcan Mountain and Thor Mountain are under construction! Overnight, the former desolate vacant land became a construction site in full swing.
Say goodbye to family members, day and night. Five &quot;post-90s&quot; guys from Lanzichen Village, Taikang County, Henan came together; a group of five brothers from Hong&#39;an, Xiang&#39;an, Hubei came by car on their own; fathers and sons from many places joined together ...
Tens of thousands of builders tried their best to rush to build the Ark of Life. In just over 10 days, 16 &quot;cabins of life&quot; rose up in the three towns of Wuhan.
Thinking of &quot;what are you still lacking&quot;, met with the &quot;comrades&quot; of Xiangyang Central Hospital, Liu Xueyong, a member of Liaoning Province&#39;s counterpart in supporting the Xiangyang Medical Team of Hubei Province, focused on solving the difficulties of Xiangyang medical supplies.
Thinking of &quot;I&#39;m afraid you will not eat well&quot;, Shenyang Chinese cabbage, Yunnan fruit, Guizhou green vegetables ... People from all over the world come up with the best, whole tons and tons to Hubei.
On the clusters of cacti, a medical worker raised the silhouette of the bleeding palm high-this hand-painted painting was named &quot;Cactus Spirit&quot; by nurse Liu Yanhong.
As the first batch of Ningxia medical aid team members of the Hubei Medical Team, Liu Yanhong will pick up colored pencils and paint a bit of anti-epidemic when he is free. &quot;The portrait on the cactus is actually everyone who is brave to fight against the epidemic. Only those who have experienced it can experience it. The determination to be a city, the strength of concentricity. Not to be afraid, but to understand responsibility and responsibility.&quot;
Resolutely win the epidemic prevention, control and blocking war, and the test will gather the power of the people
In the public opinion community of Wuhan Liuxingting Street, a table still containing a large number of epidemic prevention and control forms can no longer wait for its owner.
When the epidemic prevention and control work in Wuhan was the most difficult and dangerous, the public opinion community received an emergency call from residents of the jurisdiction: a suspected patient is getting worse!
At that time, professional ambulances were operating at full capacity and could not be transferred in a short time. There were no buses or taxis. Liao Jianjun, then a member of the community party committee and deputy director of the neighborhood committee, borrowed a wheelchair and pushed the patient to the hospital.
He has been rushing to the front line of the community epidemic, unfortunately infected with new coronary pneumonia. On February 4, Liao Jianjun died after being rescued.
Here are some weird names: Wuhan Citizen Police Wu Yong, Nanjing City Auxiliary Police Yuan Jianxiong, White Angel Liu Zhiming, Li Wenliang, Xia Sisi, Peng Yinhua ...
Faced with an unknown virus at that time, medical staff and community workers did not flinch, but instead faced the difficulties and built a first line of defense for life with flesh and blood.
General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out: &quot;It is the Chinese people who have overcome this epidemic and gave us strength and confidence.&quot;
In the darkest moment of the epidemic, countless ordinary people came forward, and the sparks lit up the love in the world.
Zhu Rugui, 18, is a student of Meixian Vocational Education Center in Shaanxi Province. On New Year&#39;s Eve, he finished his New Year&#39;s Eve dinner, without taking care of his family, took a train, a car, and walked, and went to Xiaochang, Hubei, thousands of miles away, to serve as a volunteer in the isolation ward of the local hospital.
This trip to Hubei was only due to the retrograde of Academician Zhong Nanshan-&quot;He advised everyone not to go to Wuhan as much as possible, but he was retrograde to Wuhan himself.&quot; &quot;The 84-year-old man can fight on the front line of the anti-epidemic disease. Behind?&quot;
After more than two months, Wuhan citizen Zhu Wei returned to work.
During the epidemic, he and Wang Ziyi, Wang Zhen, Li Wenjian, and Yang Xuebin, a group of ordinary citizens, formed the &quot;W Great Wuhan Emergency Rescue Team&quot;.
The 41 left-behind pregnant women arrived at the hospital with the help of this group of &quot;new life ferry&quot;.
Students, villagers, couriers, retired elderly ... ordinary people who pass by you and us, avatar volunteers, serve the community, investigate patients, clean and kill, buy medicines and deliver food, and use their arms to build groups Governing the people ’s defense.
Academicians Zhong Nanshan, Li Lanjuan, Wang Chen, Zhang Boli, Huang Luqi, Qiao Jie, Chen Wei and other academicians rushed to the front line to seek answers and methods to stop the epidemic from science.
Virus testing, drug and vaccine research and development, and optimization of prevention and control strategies ... On the other front of the fight against epidemics, the majority of scientific and technological workers are fighting day and night.
On January 2, after receiving the specimens from Hubei Province, Wu Guizhen, the chief expert in biosecurity of the Chinese Center for Disease Control, and the team of Tan Wenjie and Zhao Xiang from the viral disease team immediately entered a “relay competition”. Nucleic acid extraction, gene sequencing, comparison analysis ... Struggling for more than 30 hours, the virus&#39;s genetic code was finally deciphered in the first time! Based on the whole genome sequence, nucleic acid detection reagents were developed rapidly.
Since New Year&#39;s Day, Yan Jinghua, a researcher at the Institute of Microbiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, who has been responsible for antibody screening, has not stopped. &quot;There is no scientific research breakthrough for a new outbreak of infectious disease. It is as stressful as this time! Work progress is measured in hours and minutes.&quot;
The warm current gathered by hundreds of millions of ordinary people has become a huge force that will change the world and will eventually drive away the darkness. Starting in late February, many provinces have successively lowered the response level of public health emergencies; on April 8, Wuhan announced the &quot;unblocking&quot; The five major scientific research directions have made positive progress, and three new crown vaccines have been approved for clinical trials ...
　　
In the depths of Qinling Mountain in April, spring is full of vitality. The community factory in Jinping Community, Laoxian Town, Pingli County, Ankang City, Shaanxi Province welcomes a new life.
This county town, known as &quot;Nuwa Mountain under the small Jiangnan&quot;, is a famous poor county in the Qinba Mountains. Industrial development on the mountain, building communities under the mountain, and community-run factories-the road they got out of poverty and getting rich was severely tested in the epidemic: sharp reductions in export orders, difficulty in returning workers to work, and high logistics costs ...
Gu Zhihong, 45, moved part of his production workshop from Zhuji, Zhejiang Province last year and opened 4 community factories. Actively exporting to domestic sales, e-commerce live selling ... She and other community factories &quot;have a group&quot; to find opportunities in danger and change to survive.
The sewing machine pierced the thin fabric and the loom made a buzzing sound. Female workers&#39; dexterous fingers flipped over, and a pair of socks gradually formed and sold all over the country. One month after resuming work, Gu Zhihong&#39;s factory sales have reached more than 1.5 million yuan.
&quot;Although the epidemic has affected some businesses, I have full confidence in the future.&quot; Gu Zhihong said crisply with a strong Zhejiang accent.
On the front line of production, the machine sounded; between the fields, plowshares kept on. The Chinese people are flying the hope of spring in their forging ahead.
&quot;I did not expect to be so busy now.&quot; Ding Wenzhan, chairman of Anhui Yujie Hydraulic Machinery Co., Ltd., said in the poverty alleviation workshop of Dazhang Village, Jiuxian Town, Taihe County, Anhui. Although the construction started late, the order was busy to two. Months later.
During the outbreak, the local government, in addition to giving them technical guidance on prevention and control, also reduced the rent for three months. &quot;The country and the people overcome the difficulties together. How can we not make a difference?&quot;
The Gu Yu season is the key period for spring planting and spring planting.
&quot;Please wear a mask when you go out, don&#39;t come to dinner ...&quot; With the broadcast of the village committee&#39;s big horn, Liu Hanbo, a large planter in Sanhe Village, Fasi Street, Jiangxia District, Wuhan City, walked into the field in the morning wearing long rain boots. After a short walk, I squatted down and punched the rice seedlings to see the growth. &quot;The seedlings are plunged into the field, and this year&#39;s harvest achievements are bottomed. Just like myself, my feet are firmly in the mud, and my heart is at ease.&quot;
From masks, ventilators to protective clothing, from &quot;one person&#39;s production line&quot; to the rapid integration of the entire industrial chain ... &quot;Made in China&quot; has been fully mobilized, contributing hard-core Chinese power to global anti-epidemic.
The BYD production workshop in Shenzhen Baolong Industrial Park is a bit special: it was also a manufacturing base for smartphones three months ago. Today, what is being produced here is the world&#39;s &quot;needs&quot;-masks.
At the moment when masks were most in short supply, BYD made a &quot;hard core&quot; decision: you can&#39;t buy mask production equipment and make your own!
Li Wei, director of BYD&#39;s presidential office, coordinates production matters in the workshop every day, and masks have become her life. Since the first mask went off-line on February 17, she has witnessed BYD gradually grow into one of the world&#39;s largest mask manufacturers, with nearly 20 million Nissan masks.
Ending the Chinese New Year vacation resolutely, working two shifts a day, the machine is available 24 hours a day ... the production line, countless workers are fighting. When the task was the most stressful, Sun Haichao, an intermediate fitter, worked continuously for more than 40 days. A mask production line in which he was responsible for equipment debugging set a record for a single-line daily production capacity of more than 80,000 on March 12.
&quot;&#39;World Supermarket&#39; is ready!&quot; In the face of the violent epidemic abroad, Yiwu people who grew up by eating &quot;market meals&quot; responded calmly, doing everything possible to take orders and stabilize the source of guests.
&quot;Recapture the lagging construction period!&quot; Hainan&#39;s million-ton ethylene project, Wuhan&#39;s 1,326 billion yuan or more major projects ... A number of national key science and technology projects, super livelihood projects, and foreign capital benchmark projects have reproduced the busy scene of the past.
&quot;Go through more than half of China to pick you up!&quot; More than ten million migrant workers in Hubei who have taken the &quot;longest spring break&quot; are stepping on the recovery road, driving special vehicles, trains, and even charter flights in many places to help migrant workers return to work and corporate recovery Production.
&quot;When there is a fever, let&#39;s shine a light!&quot; Logistics through all directions, Yun Recruitment opened up, and the live broadcast of agricultural assistance is hot ... Every position and every ordinary person is making their best contribution.
In this globalization crisis that was tortured by the epidemic, the whole world has seen the great life of the Chinese people full of creativity, struggle, solidarity and dream spirit.
Half a month after &quot;unblocking&quot;, the pyrotechnic Wuhan returned.
At 9 a.m., premature people can&#39;t wait to serve a bowl of hot dry noodles, which is the warmest scene.
At 1 o&#39;clock in the afternoon, before the snack stall, customers have too much food in their hands, which is a proof of happy return.
At 7 o&#39;clock in the evening, Han Street at the beginning of the Chinese lantern was full of people waiting for a packed dinner.
Everything for the people, everything depends on the people.
The people, the people united as one person, are a great force of the Chinese nation from victory to victory! (Note holders: Liao Jun, Qu Ting, Hou Wenkun, participating reporters: Xue Tian, Chen Yuxuan, Jiang Gang, Zhang Xinxin, Dong Ruifeng)
Editor in charge: Liu Debin SN222