URL : https://tuoitre.vn/tu-y-ngung-dieu-tri-viem-gan-b-man-suy-gan-toi-cap-co-the-tu-vong-20200504170441999.htm
ID : TUOI2020050400014

Date : 2020-05-04 18:26:00
Title : Arbitrarily stop treatment of chronic hepatitis B: fulminant hepatic failure can be fatal
Ariticle : 

TTO - Recently, we have received very unfortunate cases, patients who were hospitalized with jaundice, yellow eyes or drowsiness, coma, most cases could not recover the original liver function, heavier can even be fatal.




Clarify the trick of cutting in half to cheat HIV test, hepatitis B at Blue Po Hospital



Two twins died after being vaccinated against hepatitis B




The hepatitis B virus is highly contagious
After clinical examination and some tests, we noted that the patient is in the state of fulminant hepatic failure.
Arbitrarily stop the drug, unpredictable effect
And it&#39;s a pity that we figured out that the cause was that hepatitis B broke out after just a few days of stopping the virus suppressor. The patient may not have been in a critical situation when the need for a complete and continuous stalk per day.
The patient responds well after a period of treatment, the virus concentration in the blood reaches below the level of detection, liver function improves, but because of some objective factors, the drug is discontinued voluntarily (busy work, subjective because The disease has stabilized, self-discontinuing the drug during pregnancy ...) without consulting the treating doctor.
According to world literature, acute liver failure due to the outbreak of hepatitis B virus has a very high mortality rate, ranging from 70-100%. We need to be aware that the virus is being well inhibited and improved liver function is due to adherence to treatment, correct and regular medication.
Hepatitis B is caused by hepatitis B virus which progresses through many stages. About 90% of children and about 5% of adults with an adequate immune system become infected with chronic hepatitis B infection. HBeAg (+) chronic hepatitis B infection has a 5% risk of cirrhosis each year, and HBeAg (-) chronic HBV infection is 1-2%.
Primary liver cancer can occur in patients with chronic HBV infection even when the patient is in the immune tolerant stage or the viral phase is not duplicated.
Liver cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. The disease usually progresses silently, so when most of the cases are detected in the intermediate or advanced stages and have been too indicated for thorough treatment.
Hepatitis B is closely related and is the cause of liver cancer. In Vietnam, a study at Cho Ray Hospital surveyed 24,091 liver cancer patients showed that up to 62.3% of cases have chronic hepatitis B virus.
At the stage of immune tolerance, patients with prolonged hepatitis B infection, the virus significantly duplicates, serum HBV DNA levels are very high, but there is no evidence of active hepatitis, and patients have no symptoms. control, normal liver enzymes, negligible histological damage on liver. The immune system fails to fight hepatitis B.
It is important that at this stage, the patient may not have specific anti-viral therapy, but he still needs to be re-examined and monitored to detect in time the need for hepatitis B virus-killing drugs. People often have blood tests to check for liver enzymes and screen for liver cancer every 3-6 months.
Discontinue the drug to arbitrarily use other drugs: acute liver failure, acute renal failure
There are many cases because of concerns about not taking drugs at this stage, but using unknown drugs and their origin leading to bad outcomes such as acute liver failure and acute kidney failure leading to death.
After five decades of inventing a vaccine to prevent the hepatitis B virus, hepatitis B is still a global problem, with countries in Asia and the Pacific having high rates of hepatitis B infection. .
Currently, our country has introduced the vaccine against hepatitis B virus into the expanded vaccination program, as well as the widely available vaccines and the price is not high. Therefore, prevention is better than cure, we should proactively screen and vaccinate hepatitis B virus.
If you are infected with the hepatitis B virus, patients should be re-examined regularly with a hepatobiliary specialist, or if they have been prescribed medication, they should not be discontinued without consulting their doctor.



Dr. TRAN THI THU CUC - Gastroenterology Department of Gia Dinh People&#39;s Hospital
