URL : http://vncdc.gov.vn/vi/tin-tuc-trong-nuoc/1027/hoi-nghi-tang-cuong-cong-tac-phong-chong-dich-khu-vuc-tay-nam-bo
ID : VCDC2020050500015

Date : 2016-10-28 00:00:00
Title : Conference on strengthening epidemic prevention in the Southwest region
Ariticle : 





Conference on strengthening epidemic prevention in the Southwest region
10/28/2016
 
Implementing the Work Coordination Program 2016, the Ministry of Health in collaboration with the Southwest Steering Committee and the People&#39;s Committee of Kien Giang Province organized a Conference to strengthen the prevention and control of Southwestern region on 25 / 10/2016 in Kien Giang province.
 
 
 
Hosted the Conference by Prof. Dr. Nguyen Thanh Long, Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Le Hung Dung, Deputy Head of the Southwest Steering Committee, Mr. Mai Van Huynh, Vice Chairman of Kien Giang Provincial People&#39;s Committee. Attending the meeting were leaders and officials of Departments, Offices, Offices and Inspectors of the Ministry of Health; a number of institutes and hospitals; Military Medical Department, Border Guard High Command (Ministry of Defense); Leaders of provincial People&#39;s Committee; Department of Health leaders; Leaders and staff of Preventive Medicine Center, Center for Health Education and Communication, Center for Reproductive Health Care, Center for International Health Quarantine, Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Ho Chi Minh City Hospital, Hospital Children I, Children II Ho Chi Minh City, Tu Du Hospital, Maternity / Children Hospital of 19 provinces: Long An, Tien Giang, Vinh Long, Ben Tre, Dong Thap, Tra Vinh, An Giang, Can Tho, Hau Giang, Bac Lieu, Soc Trang, Kien Giang, Ca Mau, Ho Chi Minh City, Tay Ninh, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Dong Nai, Ba Ria - Vung Tau and a number of media and press agencies.
 
The conference was held in the context of the complicated world disease situation, emerging diseases (Ebola, MERS-CoV, Zika) and vector-borne diseases (dengue fever, malaria). outbreak, increase sharply in many countries. In the country, dangerous and emerging diseases are always at high risk of infiltration, outbreaks if not drastically implemented measures to prevent and control epidemics. However, in recent times a number of infectious diseases have an increased risk of Zika virus cases and diseases, dengue fever is still circulating at a high level.
 
In recent years, with the attention and guidance of the Southwest Steering Committee, the disease situation in the region has been gradually controlled, many epidemics have been controlled and repelled, successfully prevented dangerous diseases. intrusion into the area.

At the Conference, the delegates reported the situation of infectious diseases and vaccination work in the South, proposed solutions. The conference also proposed solutions to enhance environmental sanitation in disease prevention in the Southwest region.

Delegates focused on caring for, monitoring the health of pregnant women in the situation of Zika virus disease. This needs to be paid special attention to supervising and early detecting suspected cases of Zika in pregnant women, communicating methods of preventing mosquito bites and preventing Zika to women. pregnancy, in order to minimize the risk of infection in this group and reduce the risk of infection in the community.

Besides, the Conference mentioned solutions for preventing and combating malnutrition of children in the Southwest region; Prevention of dengue fever, Zika; Coordinating in handling outbreaks, prevention and control of Rubella are concentrated in industrial zones and sharing experiences and discussing prevention and control solutions in the Southwest region.
 
 
 
Speaking at the Conference, Deputy Minister Nguyen Thanh Long emphasized that the current situation of diseases is complicated, the situation of environmental sanitation is weak, public awareness and responsibilities of the departments and agencies. Unions have not been as expected so the problem of disease prevention in the authorities in some localities is still overlooked and subjective. The solution in the coming time, the most important is to focus on disease prevention. Socially, mobilizing the participation of authorities, localities and mass organizations; strengthening the direction of party committees and local governments; at the same time mobilizing a large number of people to participate; continue to organize and promote campaigns to eliminate magnetic larvae and larvae to districts and communes. Health sector when detecting outbreaks immediately zoned and extinguished; strengthen supervision and advisory development of epidemic prevention plans; training on treatment for preventing dengue deaths. The Deputy Minister suggested that the health sector as well as the departments and branches of the Southwestern region should focus strongly on prevention of epidemic diseases and hope that in the coming time, it will control and repel the epidemic in the Region.

Department of Preventive Medicine, Ministry of Health




